
.TH ALCBANNER 1 "October 1, 1997" "ASIM/LIP6" "ALLIANCE USER COMMANDS"

.SH NAME
\fBalcbanner\fP \- Display a standardized banner for Alliance tools

.so man1/alc_origin.1


.SH SYNOPSIS
.TP
\f4alcbanner\fR \fItool toolversion purpose copyrightdates\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
\f4alcbanner\fR display on \f4stdout\fP a standardized banner for the Alliance
tools.
This is a compiled version of the \f4alliancebanner\fR(2) function.


.SH EXAMPLE
.RS
\f4alcbanner GenPat 3.1 "Procedural GENeration of test PATterns" 1991\fR

.RE
will display :
.ft 4
.nf


             @@@@ @                        @@@@@@@                      
           @@    @@                          @@   @@               @    
          @@      @                          @@    @@             @@    
         @@             @@@@@   @@@ @@@      @@    @@   @@@@      @@    
         @@            @     @   @@@   @     @@   @@   @@   @   @@@@@@@@
         @@     @@@@@ @@     @@  @@    @@    @@@@@     @@   @@    @@    
         @@     @ @@  @@@@@@@@@  @@    @@    @@          @@@@@    @@    
         @@    @  @@  @@         @@    @@    @@        @@   @@    @@    
          @@      @@  @@      @  @@    @@    @@       @@    @@    @@    
           @@    @@    @@    @@  @@    @@    @@       @@   @@@    @@   @
             @@@@        @@@@   @@@@  @@@@ @@@@@@      @@@@  @@    @@@@ 

                     Procedural GENeration of test PATterns

                  Alliance CAD System 3.2b,          genpat 3.1
                  Copyright (c) 1991-1997,       ASIM/LIP6/UPMC
                  E-mail support: alliance-support@asim.lip6.fr


.fi
.ft R

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR mbk(1)
.BR alliancebanner (3).


.SH DIAGNOSTICS

The output is centered for a 80 columns screen, so it can be used on most
display easilly, and not found at execution time.

\f4alliancebanner: Error: Resulting size bigger than 80 columns not allowed\fR
.RS
The \fItool\fR argument must be such that its resulting size isn't wider that
80 culumns.
This means, since the character set is proportional, that the longest name
to be output is about 8 characters long.
.RE
\f4alliancebanner: Error: Character out of [0-9A-Za-z] range\fR
.RS
The \fItool\fR parameter has a non allowed character in it.
For simplicity purposes, only numbers and letters are accepted.
.RE


.so man1/alc_bug_report.1

