.\"   $Id: bsg.1,v 1.1 1999/05/31 17:30:13 alliance Exp $
.\" @(#)Labo.l 2.01 95/03/02 UPMC; Author: laurent WINCKEL
.TH BSG 1 "October 1, 1997" "ASIM/LIP6" "ALLIANCE USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
bsg \-  Barrel Shifter Generator
.SH SYNOPSYS
.B bsg 
.I bits
.B [ -virtual ] [ -msb0 ]
.br
.B [ -layout ] [ -icon ] [ -vhdl ] [ -patterns ] [ -datasheet ]
.br
.B [ -physical_box ] [ -logical_box ]
.br
.B [ -o name_prefix ]
.so man1/alc_origin.1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B bsg
is a fast barrel shifter generator for bit-sliced data-paths.
The slice is fixed to 60 lambdas, allows virtual terminals, and could be
used with the data-path compiler
.BR fitpath (1).
It has the capability of doing logical and arithmetical shifts and
rotations.
.BR fitpath (1).
.LP
The generator needs a leaf cell library to work well.
The \fBMBK_CATA_LIB\fP(1) environment variable should contain the path to
the generator library, \fIbslib\fP.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 20
.I bits
data size in bits of the barrel shifter to be 
generated. Must be in range 3-64.
This argument is mandatory.
.B -virtual
Generates a barrel shifter with virtual connectors, as opposed to the default
that generates steady terminals, to be used by the data-path compiler
\fPfitpath\fP(1).
.TP
.B -msb0
Index 0 of vectorized busses will be used for the most significant bit, else index 0 will be used for the less significant bit of busses.
.TP
.B -layout
To obtain a layout view.
The different formats are given by
.BR mbk (1)
documentation.
.TP
.B -icon
To obtain a icon view.
.TP
.B -vhdl
To obtain a VHDL data-flow behavioral description view.
.TP
.B -patterns
To obtain a patterns file.
.TP
.B -datasheet
To obtain a data sheet.
.TP
.B -physical_box
To obtain a physical outline view. Cannot be used with the -layout option.
The different formats are given by
.BR mbk (1)
documentation.
.TP
.B -logical_box
To obtain a netlist view. This view contains only the logical block interface.
The different formats are given by
.BR mbk (1)
documentation.
.TP
.B -o \fIblockname\fP
\fIblockname\fP indicate the user name prefix for all files generated.
If no name is given, a default name will be composed by the generator.
For each set of parameters and options, the default name will be different.
.LP
Each signal name is predefined and can not be modified by the user.
.I bits
represent the number of bits.
Signal names are:
.TP 20
.B in_s[0..\fIbits\fP-1]
Shift number.
.TP
.B in_d[0..\fIbits\fP-1]
Data input.
.TP 
.B out_d[0..\fIbits\fP-1]
Data output.
.TP
.B left
When set to logical 
.BR 1 ,
Makes a shift to the left. When set to ground, makes a shift to the right.
.TP
.B rot
When set to logical
.BR 1 ,
makes a rotation which direction depends on the value of the 
.B left 
signal.
.TP
.B ext
When set to logical 
.B 1
whenever
.B left 
is set to logical 
.B 0
(right shift) and 
.B rot
to logical 
.B 0
(no rotation), makes an arithmetical shift to the right (lefting 
.BI in_d[ \fIbits\fP-1]
in the most significant bits).
.PP
.ta 5n 10n 15n 20n
\fBrot\fP	\fBleft\fP	\fBext\fP	       \fBaction\fP
 0	 0	 0	logical right shift
 0	 0	 1	arithmetical right shift
 0	 1	 0	logical left shift
 0	 1	 1	arithmetical left shift
 1	 0	 0	right rotation
 1	 0	 1	?
 1	 1	 0	left rotation
 1	 1	 1	?
.PP
See the 
.B Barrel Shifter Cell Library documentation 
for more details about the shifter structure and connectors.
.PP
.SH OUTPUT FILES
.TP 20
.IB \|name\| .xx
The layout  and netlist views. The suffix 
depends on the 
.B MBK_OUT_PH 
and 
.B MBK_OUT_LO 
environment variables. (see below).
.TP
.IB \|name\| .icn
The shifter icon view.
.TP
.IB \|name\| .vbe
The 
.B VHDL
behavioral view of the shifter.
.TP
.IB \|name\| .pat
The patterns set.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP 20
.B MBK_CATA_LIB
contains the directory path of the barrel shifter
leaf cells library. This library is already in 
.IR /labo/cells/bsg
and if not, depends upon the system administrator installation.
.TP
.B MBK_WORK_LIB
contains the directory path of the working
directory. Usually set to
.BR . .
.TP
.B MBK_IN_PH
contains the format of the barrel shifter cell
library.
.TP
.B MBK_OUT_PH
contains the desired format of the layout output.
.TP
.B MBK_OUT_LO
contains the desired format of the netlist output.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR MBK_CATA_LIB (1),
.BR MBK_WORK_LIB (1),
.BR MBK_IN_PH (1),
.BR MBK_OUT_PH (1),
.BR MBK_OUT_LO (1),
.BR mbk (1),
.BR genlib (1),
.BR vhdl (1),
.BR fitpath (1),
.BR rfg (1),
.BR grog (1),
.BR rsa (1).

.so man1/alc_bug_report.1

