.\"   $Id: buseg.1,v 1.1 1999/05/31 17:30:13 alliance Exp $
.TH BUSEG 1 "October 1, 1997" "ASIM/LIP6" "FITPATH Dedicated Generators"
.so man1/alc_origin.1
.SH NAME
\fBbuseg\fP - Tristate generator for \fBFITPATH\fP data-path compiler.
.SH SYNOPSYS
.ft B
.nf
.ta 7n
buseg	<\fIdpwidth\fB> <\fIopwidth\fB> <\fIlsb_slice\fB> 
	[-msb0] <-vhdl|-netlist|-icon> [-o \fIModelName\fB]
.fi
.ft R
.SH OPTIONS
.ta  11n
.in +11n
.ti -11n
\fIdpwidth\fP	An integer giving the data-path full bus wide.

.ti -11n
\fIopwidth\fP	An integer giving the operator bus wide.

.ti -11n
\fIlsb_slice\fP	An integer giving the operator bottom slice,
i.e. the slice where the LSB will be set.

.ti -11n
\fBmsb0\fP
.in -6n
.ti +6n
If this switch is present, the virtual connector with index
of \fBn\fP is on the slice numberred \fIWidth\fP\fB-1-n\fP.
That is to say :
.br
.ta +2n
-	Connectors indexed \fPzero\fP are on the slice \fIWidth\fP\fB-1\fP.
.br
-	Connectors indexed \fIWidth\fP\fB-1\fP are on the slice \fBzero\fP.
.br
.ti +6n
Otherwise, the virtual connector with index of \fBn\fP is on the slice
numberred \fBn\fP. That give :
.br
.ta +2n
-	Connectors indexed \fPzero\fP are on the slice \fBzero\fP.
.br
-	Connectors indexed \fIWidth\fP\fB-1\fP are on the slice
\fIWidth\fP\fB-1\fP.
.br
.ti +6n
So if we assume that the MSB is in all case associated with the
\fBslice\fP numberred \fIWidth\fP\fB-1\fP, when \fPmsb0\fP is set the
connector of the MSB have an index of \fPzero\fP, and an index of
\fIWidth\fP\fB-1\fP otherwise.
.br
.ti +6n
Notice that the leaf cell indexation is not affected by the
\fBmsb0\fP switch.
.br
.in +6n
.ta  11n

.ti -11n
\fBnetlist\fP	Generates the netlist view of the tristate operator.
.br

.ti -11n
\fBicon\fP	Generates the icon view of the tristate operator.
.br

.ti -11n
\fIModelName\fP	Give the name of the model. If it is not specified
the generator creates it automatically (based on the parametrization).
.in -11n
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ta 4n +10nR +2n +2n
	\fBBuseg\fP generate the netlist view and/or the icon view of the
tristate operator. In order to build the netlist view the generator
use the following cells of \fBfplib\fP librarie :
.br
	-	nt1_fp	:	Effective tristate leaf cell.
.br
	-	bnt1_dp	:	Dedicated buffer cell.
.br
	All informations needed to perform the physical placement of leaf
cells with \fBdpp(1)\fP are sets. In other words, the instance names
are indexed according to the three parameters \fIdpwidth\fP, \fIopwidth\fP
and \fIlsb_slice\fP.

\fBTerminals\fP
.br

.ta  10n
.in +10n
.ti -10n
\fBsel\fP	Select the state of the output :
.br
.ta +2n +10n +2n
-	low	:	output in high impedance.
.br
-	high	:	output drived by the input.
.br
This is a fixed terminal available on the north side of the
abutment box.
.br
.ta 10n

.ti -10n
\fBi0[\fP\fIopwidth\fP\fB+\fP\fIlsb_slice\fP\fB-1:\fP\fIlsb_slice\fP\fB]\fP
.br
.ti -10n
\fBi0[\fP\fIdpwidth\fP\fB-\fP\fIopwidth\fP\fB-\fP\fIlsb_slice\fP\fB:\fP\fIdpwidth\fP\fB-\fP\fIlsb_slice\fP\fB-1]\fP
.br
Input bus, virtual terminal (without and with the \fB-msb0\fP option).
.br
.bp
.ti -10n
\fBo[\fP\fIopwidth\fP\fB+\fP\fIlsb_slice\fP\fB-1:\fP\fIlsb_slice\fP\fB]\fP
.br
.ti -10n
\fBo[\fP\fIdpwidth\fP\fB-\fP\fIopwidth\fP\fB-\fP\fIlsb_slice\fP\fB:\fP\fIdpwidth\fP\fB-\fP\fIlsb_slice\fP\fB-1]\fP
.br
Ouput bus, virtual terminal (without and with the \fB-msb0\fP option).
.br

.ti -10n
\fBvdd, vss\fP	Power supplies.
.in -10n
.SH EXAMPLES
.ft CR
buseg 32 32 0 -netlist -o my_tris
.ft R
.in +4n
Generates the netlist of a 32 bits tristate, named \fImy_tris\fP, with
leaf cell indexed from slice 0 (LSB) to slice 31 (MSB).

.in -4n
.ft CR
buseg 32 16 16 -netlist
.ft R
.in +4n
Generate the netlist of a 16 bits tristate, named \fIbuse32x16x16l_cl\fP,
with leaf cell indexed from slice 16 (LSB) to slice 31 (MSB).
.in -4n
.SH OUTPUT FILES
.ta  20n
.in +20n
.ti -20n
\fIModelName\fP\fB.vbe\fP	VHDL behevioral view.
.br

.ti -20n
\fIModelName\fP\fB.xx\fP	Netlist view. The ouput format \fB"xx"\fP
depend on the \fBMBK_OUT_LO\fP environment variable.
.br

.ti -20n
\fIModelName\fP\fB.icn\fP	The icon view.
.in -20n
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.ta +20n
.in +20n
.ti -20n
\fPMBK_CATA_LIB\fP	Contain the list of directories path holding the
leaf cells libraries. In this case it have to include the path to
\fBfplib\fP : \fB/labo/cells/fplib\fP.
.br

.ti -20n
\fPMBK_IN_LO\fP	Contain the format of the logical description of the
library leaf cells.
.br

.ti -20n
\fBMBK_OUT_LO\fP	Contain the ouput format of the generated netlist.
.in -20n
.SH SEE ALSO
.ft B
DP_BUSE(3), fpgen(3), fplib(3), mbk(3)

.so man1/alc_bug_report.1

