.\" @(#)dreal 1.03 94/10/10 UPMC/MASI/CAO-VLSI "
.TH DREAL 1 "Febuary 28, 1995" "Release 3.0" "ALLIANCE Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
dreal \- Graphic real layout viewer
.SH SYNOPSIS
dreal 
.SH ORIGIN
This software belongs to the
.B ALLIANCE
CAD system from the
.br
CAO-VLSI team at MASI laboratory, University P. et M. Curie
.br
4, place Jussieu ; 75252 PARIS Cedex 05 ; FRANCE
.br
Fax: (44-1) 44.27.62.86 ; E-mail: cao-vlsi@masi.ibp.fr
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Dreal
is a hierarchical real layout viewer. All functionnalities can be
accessed through different menus.
.B Dreal
works under Motif and X11r5.
When entering 
.B Dreal,
the main window appears and shows 4 different
menus on the top bar.These menus can be entered by simply clicking on the
mouse left button. Here is the description of these menus.

.TP 10
.B File
\f4Open\fP : load an existing cell.
.br
\f4Quit\fP : quit dreal.

.TP 10   
.B View
\f4Zoom\fP : perform zoom in, zoom out, center, fit, refresh on figure.
.br
\f4Layer\fP : select types of layers displayed.
.br
\f4Map\fP : show cursor position in the entire figure.
.br
\f4Arrows\fP : show arrows for moving at the grid step.
.br
\f4Grid\fP : Set the X,Y step of the grid if displayed.

.TP 10
.B Tools
\f4Flatten\fP : flatten the current figure.
.br
\f4Message\fP : display the last error messages.

.TP 10
.B Setup
Save or load a user defined configuration of default displayed menus.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP
.B MBK_CATA_LIB
indicates the path to the read only libraries to be used. 
.TP
.B MBK_WORK_LIB
indicates the path to the read directory for the session.
.TP
.B RDS_IN
indicates the file format to be used for the cell.
.TP
.B DREAL_TECHNO_NAME (optionnal)
indicates the path to the techno name file used by Dreal.
.TP
.B RDS_TECHNO_NAME (optionnal)
indicates the path to the RDS configuration file used by Dreal.

.SH SEE ALSO
mbk(1), MBK_CATA_LIB(8), RDS_IN(1), RDS_TECHNO_NAME(1)

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Please report bugs, problems and suggestions to
.B cao-vlsi@masi.ibp.fr


