.\" @(#)etas.1 1.00 complete October 19, 1997 UPMC; Karim DIOURY and Marie-Minerve LOUERAT
.TH ETAS 1 "October 19, 1997 - Release 1.00" "ASIM/LIP6" "cao\-vlsi reference manual"

.SH NAME
.PP
\fBetas\fP \- A timing file .dtx and .ttx browser

.so man1/alc_origin.1

.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
etas \fI[options] [root_file]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBetas\fP is the browser of the timing result files
provided by the hierarchical timing analyzer \fBtas\fP.
It requires a file with the \fBttx\fP extension 
to report information on the path delays and possibly
a file with the \fBdtx\fP extension to report information on the detailed delays (gate)
of the paths.
.PP
\fBetas\fP reports timing information selected according to
the user's requests.
When entering \fBetas\fP, the prompt \fBetas\fP appears. 
On-line help can be provided by running:
.PP
\fBetas>\fP  help [options|commands|arguments]
.PP 
the options should be specified when running \fBetas\fP, they are described
in the following section.
The commands and the arguments are specified after entering \fBetas\fP. 
They are described in the following sections.
Previously performed commands are available through the keyboard arrow.
.PP
\fBtas\fP is a  switch level, pattern independent, timing analyzer
for  CMOS  circuits.
The input file \fIroot_file\fP is a netlist of transistors and capacitances
extracted from the layout (ALLIANCE or SPICE format).
The netlist can be hierarchical and is flattened if necessary.
\fBtas\fP uses a technology file dedicated for each target process
(file with \fBelp\fP extension).
The default version works out a flattened timing view of the circuit
and does not take into account the resistances of wires.
In the hierarchical analysis mode, \fBtas\fP uses
existing timing views of leaf cell blocks
to work out the timing view of the whole circuit,
and takes possibly into account the resistances of the interconnecting wires.
.PP
The default option of \fBtas\fP provides
one output, called 'general perfmodule' (\fBroot_file.ttx\fP ). It is  the entire
timing view of the circuit in a special format
suitable for the hierarchical analysis and
the text browser of the results \fBetas\fP.
It contains the propagation times between reference points.
Reference points are:
         - Terminals (input or/and output of  path)
.br
         - Registers or latches (input and output of  path)
.br
         - Register Commands (output of  path)
.br
         - Precharged signals (optional, input and output of path)
.br
.PP
Another possible output of \fBtas\fP is the 'detailed perfmodule'
(\fBroot_file.dtx\fP). The corresponding
file contains detailed informations
on gate delays
in a special format
suitable for the hierarchical analysis and
the text browser of the results \fBetas\fP.

.TP 20
Input file
This argument \fIroot_file\fR, is the name of the timing  file(s) \fBroot_file.ttx\fP 
(and \fBroot_file.dtx\fP) of a circuit provided by \fBtas\fP.


.SH OPTIONS
.PP
Options may appear in any order before or after the
input filename.

.TP 10
\fI-in="ref_in"\fP
Active with the \fBpath\fP command.
It can be cancelled by the \fBnoin\fP command.
Very useful for large circuits and clock checking.
When this option is set \fBetas\fP reports
only the critical \fBpath\fP associated
to the \fIref_in\fP signal. The \fIref_in\fP signal
can either be :
.br
        -a register (or latch), or
.br
        -an input terminal, or
.br
        -a bidirectional terminal.
.br
It is possible to specify more than one signal by using
\fIregular expression\fP containing
as many '*' as you want. You can ask for a part of a vectorized signal
(for example \fI-xin="sig*a*" -xin="vector[2-5]\fP").

.TP 10
\fI-lm=value\fP
This option enables the user to indicate the maximum size of the cache memory to be used
by \fBetas\fP (Megabyte) when loading the timing data base
resulting from \fBtas\fP run.
During the analysis \fBetas\fP tries to use less than \fBlm\fP megabytes,
if it does not succeed \fBetas\fP uses more and issues a warning.
\fBetas\fP will allow 10% of the cache memory to the signals and 90% to the paths.
This size can be modified by the \fBcache\fP command.

.TP 10
\fI-name="signal"\fP
This option enables the user to specify the name of signals (terminals, latches, other signals)
that
will be reported by the \fBlist\fP command.
It is possible to specify more than one signal by using
\fIregular expression\fP containing
as many '*' as you want. You can ask for a part of a vectorized signal
(for example \fI-xout="sig*a*" -xout="vector[2-5]\fP").

.TP 10
\fI-out="ref_out"\fP
Active with the \fBpath\fP command.
It can be cancelled by the \fBnoout\fP command.
Very useful for large circuits.
When this option is set \fBetas\fP reports
only the critical path associated
to the \fIref_out\fP signal. The \fIref_out\fP signal
can either be :
.br
        -a register (or latch), or
.br
        -a register command, or
.br
        -an output terminal, or
.br
        -a bidirectional terminal.
.br
It is possible to specify more than one signal by using
\fIregular expression\fP containing
as many '*' as you want. You can ask for a part of a vectorized signal
(for example \fI-xout="sig*a*" -xout="vector[2-5]\fP").

.TP 10
\fI-x[=val_min][=:val_max][=val_min:val_max]\fP
If the \fB-x\fP option is used  without argument, the
details of \fBall\fP  critical paths will be reported.
Beware that this can be a lot of informations.
With \fI=val_min\fP  argument, where \fIval_min\fP is a delay in pico-second
(integer), only paths with delay greater than \fIval_min\fP will be
detailed.
With \fI=:val_max\fP  argument, where \fIval_max\fP is a delay in pico-second
(integer), only paths with delay smaller than \fIval_max\fP will be
detailed.
With \fI=val_min:val_max\fP argument, only paths with delay between
\fIval_min\fP and
\fIval_max\fP will be detailed.

.TP 10
\fI-w=integer\fP
Specify the maximum number of delays or signals to be reported
simultaneously.



.SH COMMAND
.PP
The commands allow the user to request a report on some specified timing data.
You run the commands by :

.br
\fBetas>\fP  command_name [command_parameter] [command_argument]

On-line help can be provided by running:

.br
\fBetas>\fP  help command 

If an arrow follows the name of the command, further information
can be retrieved by :

.br
\fBetas>\fP help command command_name


.TP 10
\f4list(l) list_parameter [list_argument]\fP 
request  a list of items \fBlist_parameter\fP
in the circuit (instance, command, terminal, latch or
precharged signal). The \fBlist_parameter\fP
allow the user to specify the type of items of the requested list. They are:
.br
	\f4instance(i)\fP : report the list of instances
.br
	\f4command(q)\fP : report the list of commands (of memory points)
.br
	\f4connector(c)\fP : report the list of terminals
.br
	\f4latch(l)\fP : report the list of latches
.br
	\f4precharge(p)\fP : report the list of precharged signals
.br
	\f4signal(s)\fP : report the other kind of signals

.TP 10
\f4path(p) path_parameter [path_argument]\fP 
request for path search according to \fBpath_parameter\fP
(delay, critic or parallel). The \fBpath_parameter\fP 
allow the user to
specify the type of path report requested. They are:
.br
	\f4delay(d)\fP : report all the critical paths (possibly specified by the \fBpath_argument\fP)
.br
	\f4critic(c)\fP : report only the longest (or shortest) critical path
.br
	\f4parallel(p)\fP : report the parallel paths of a specified path (use \fBpath_argument\fP)
.br
NB. The \f4critic\fP \fPpath_parameter\fP can be used to report more than
one path. You can use :
.br
\f4path critic number\fP to specify the number (integer) of longest (or shortest) paths to 
be reported
.br
\f4path critic delaymax=value1 delaymin=value2\fP to specify the time interval
between value1 (pisosecond) and value2 (picosecond), 
in which you want the paths to be reported.




.TP 10
\f4detail(d) detail_parameter [detail_argument]\fP 
request for detailed delay search according to
\fBdetail_parameter\fP (delay, critic or parallel). The \fBdetail_parameter\fP
allow the user to
specify the type of detailed report requested.
The path can be specified by an index. This index is available in the
path report, so a path report should be performed before the request on details.
This option requires the existence of the \fB.dtx\fP file.
The \fBdetail_parameter\fP are:
.br
	\f4delay(d)\fP : report the detailed (gate) delays of a specified path (use \fBdetail_argument\fP)
.br
	\f4critic(c)\fP : report the detailed delays (gate) of the longest (or shortest) path
.br
	\f4parallel(p)\fP : report the detailed delays (gate) of a specified parallel path (use 
\fBdetail_argument\fP)

.TP 10
\f4open(o) file_name\fP 
open the timing file(s)  of a circuit (file_name.ttx and if it exists
file_name.dtx), the file_name should be given without extension

.TP 10
\f4remove(r)\fP 
remove the opened timing file

.TP 10
\f4window(w) value\fP  
set to value (integer) the maximum number of items reported simultaneously,
default value is 10

.TP 10
\f4cache(c) int1 [int2]\fP 
set the value (Megabyte) of the cache size 
to be used for loading the timing data. Without the value argument \fBetas\fP reports
the actual size of the cache. With only one argument (\fBint1\fP integer)  \fBetas\fP
uses 10% of the cache memory for signals and 90% for paths. With both arguments
(integers) \fBetas\fP uses the value \fBint1\fP for the signals and \fBint2\fP
for the paths.

.TP 10
\f4memory(m)\fP 
report the actual memory used

.TP 10
\f4status(s)\fP 
report the status of the timing files under analysis and the type of search

.TP 10
\f4help(h)\fP 
provide on-line help

.TP 10
\f4quit(q)\fP 
quit \fBetas\fP

.TP 10
\f4<return>\fP 
rerun last command

.TP 10
\f4<integer>\fP 
specify the index of a path to be reported (index reported by \fBetas>\fP path delay)

.SH ARGUMENT
These argument allow the user to specify the ends of paths
(in or out), the names of signals and  the instances to be analyzed
as well as the type of analysis (long or
short paths, from output or from input).
It should be used with either the command \fBpath\fP or \fBdetail\fP or \fBlist\fP.
On-line help can be provided by running
.br
\fBetas>\fP  help argument
.br
.TP 10
\f4in=input_name|input_index\fP 
to specify the name(s) or the index of the path
input(s) (terminal, latch, precharged signal) to be reported
by the \fBpath\fP or \fBdetail\fP commands. Regular expressions can be used
(these \fIinput_name\fP and \fIinput_index\fP are available 
by \fBetas>\fP list connector|latch|precharge)

.TP 10
\f4noin\fP 
cancel \fIin\fP argument (also from option)

.TP 10
\f4out=output_name|output_index\fP 
to specify the name(s) or the index of 
the signals (terminal, latch, precharged signal) to be reported
by the \fBpath\fP or \fBdetail\fP commands. Regular expressions can be used
(these \fIoutput_name\fP and \fIoutput_index\fP are available 
by \fBetas>\fP list connector|latch|precharge)

.TP 10
\f4noout\fP 
cancel \fIout\fP argument (also from option)

.TP 10
\f4name=mask_name1[,mask_name2][and|or]\fP 
this argument is used together with the command \fBlist\fP or with the command 
\fBpath parallel\fP as a mask to specify the signals. 
Regular expressions can be used.
.br
With the \fBlist\fP command it can specify the instances, terminals, latchs or precharged signals 
to be reported.
.br
With the \fBpath parallel\fP command it can specify an intermediary signal of a parallel
path in order to report all the parallel paths including this signal. If more
than one name is used, the user can specify to report all paths including
at least \fImask_name1\fP \fBOR\fP \fImask_name2\fP (default), but
he can also specify all paths including \fImask_name1\fP \fBAND\fP \fImask_name2\fP.

.TP 10
\f4noname\fP 
cancel \fIname\fP argument (also from option)


.TP 10
\f4instance=instance_name|instance_index\fP 
to specify the name or the index of an instance (available by \fBlist instance\fP command), 
it can be an
argument of one of  the following commands:
.br
	\fBpath delay\fP, 
.br
	\fBpath parallel\fP, 
.br
	\fBlist command\fP
.br
	\fBlist precharge\fP
.br
	\fBlist latch\fP
.br
	\fBlist signal\fP
.br
It means that the requested informations are given only for the specified instance

.TP 10
\f4noins\fP 
cancel \fIinstance\fP argument

.TP 10
\f4delaymax=value\fP 
specify the maximum delay (value in pico-second) for path search, only paths
with a delay smaller than \fIdelaymax\fP will be reported

.TP 10
\f4delaymin=value\fP 
specify the minimum delay (value in pico-second) for path search, only paths
with a delay greater than \fIdelaymin\fP will be reported

.TP 10
\f4nodelay\fP 
cancel \fIdelaymin\fP and \fIdelaymax\fP argument

.TP 10
\f4frin\fP 
specify search from input

.TP 10
\f4frout\fP 
specify search from output (default)

.TP 10
\f4max\fP 
longest delay search (default)

.TP 10
\f4min\fP 
shortest delay search

.TP 10
\f4pathindex\fP 
path index used to specify a path to be reported. For example :
.br
\fBetas>\fP detail delay 3
.br
reports the detailed delays of the path of index 3 (index available by \fBpath delay\fP command).


.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
\fBtas -t adder\fP
.br
\fBetas\fP  adder   
.br
\fBetas>\fP path critic
.br
\fBetas>\fP detail critic
.br
\fBetas>\fP path delay
.br
\fBetas>\fP path parallel index
.br
\fBetas>\fP detail path index
.br
\fBetas>\fP path parallel index name=signal1,signal2 and
.PP
In  this example
the user runs \fBtas\fP and then uses \fBetas\fP to analyse the results.
\fBetas\fP  
looks for adder.ttx (then for adder.dtx) and opens the files to figure and report the requested informations:
.br
	the critical path
.br
	the detail of the critical path
.br 
	all the path delays between reference points
.br 
	the parallel paths of the path of index \fIindex\fP reported in the above list of paths
.br
	the detail of the path of index \fIindex\fP reported in the above list of parallel paths
.br
	the parallel paths to the path of index \fIindex\fP in the above list of paths including \fIsignal1\fP and \fIsignal2\fP

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
     tas(1), yagle(1), lynx(1), inf(5)

.so man1/alc_bug_report.1

