.\"   $Id: glop.1,v 1.1 1999/05/31 17:30:13 alliance Exp $
.\" 
.\" 
.\"   $Id: glop.1,v 1.1 1999/05/31 17:30:13 alliance Exp $
.\" 
.\" 
.pl -.4
.TH GLOP 1 "October 1, 1997" "ASIM/LIP6" "CAO\-VLSI Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
.TP
glop   
\- Fanout optimizer, global optimizer and timing analyzer of a gate netlist 

.so man1/alc_origin.1

.SH SYNOPSIS
.TP
\fBglop\fP [\fI-f | -g | -t | -i\fP]  \fInetlist_file\fP \fInetlist_output\fP \fI[file_of_parameters]\fP
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
.br
\fBglop\fP is a CAD tool that permits to remove fanout problems within a gates netlist and to optimize the delay. The netlist can be hierarchical and is flattened if necessary. \fBglop\fP run in  batch mode and a parameter file can be used (see man \fBlax\fP) to parametrize optimization by adding informations on outputs (fanin), inputs (fanout, delay) and by setting general parameters such as fanout factor.
\fBglop\fP permits to compute delays of gates in the netlist and gives the critical path in the netlist. The global optimization of \fBglop\fP performs gate repowering and buffer inserting to decrease the critical path delay.

.br
.SH OPTIONS
.br
One option may be given at the same time.
.HP
.ti 7
\fI-f\fP performs a fanout optimization : This checks the fanout of every gates, regardless of the critical path, and insert buffer or a more powerfull gate if necessary.
.HP
.ti 7
\fI-g\fP performs a timing optimization : This checks the fanout of every gates and insert buffer or a more powerfull gate only if the critical path is not altered.
.HP
.ti 7
\fI-i\fP gives fanout informations about the netlist 
.HP
.ti 7
\fI-t\fP gives timing informations about the netlist 


.SH EXAMPLES
.br
You can call \fBglop\fP as follows :
.br
	glop -f add8 add8opt
.br
	glop -g alu4 alu4buff myparam
.br

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.br
.HP
.ti 7
\fIMBK_WORK_LIB\fP gives the path for the input and output netlist files or parameter file.
.HP
.ti 7
\fIMBK_CATA_LIB\fP gives the auxiliary path for the input netlist file or paths for the cell libraries. 
.HP
.ti 7
\fIMBK_IN_LO\fP gives the format for input structural description. 
.HP
.ti 7
\fIMBK_OUT_LO\fP gives the format for output structural description. 
.HP
.ti 7
\fIMBK_VDD\fP & \fIMBK_VSS\fP permits to define the alimentation names.


.SH SEE ALSO
.br
genlib(1), scmap(1), sclib(1), scr(1)
.br

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
.br
Special optimisation can be done running \fBglop\fP twice :
.br
	1: glop -g alu4 alu4g myparam
.br
	2: glop -f alu4g alu4buff myparam
.br
Then the second time \fBglop\fP is run (whith -f) it doesn't optimizes the gates added by
the first pass and uses a FANOUT_FACTOR/4 for the internal gates.
This is used to optimize the critcal path AND the interface cells.

.so man1/alc_bug_report.1

