.\"   $Id: librpr.1,v 1.1 1999/05/31 17:30:14 alliance Exp $
.\" @(#)librpr.1 0.0 93/18/08 UPMC
.if t \{\
.so man1/alc_contents.mac
.XS \n%
.ti 0.2i
librpr
.XE
.XS0 \n%
.ti 0.2i
librpr
.XE0 \}
.TH LIBRPR 1 "October 1, 1997" "ASIM/LIP6" "RPR LIBRARY VERSION 203"
.SH NAME
librpr \- rpr library description
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IP
.IP I)
Description of global variables and constants of the library
.RS
.IP A)
Constants
.TP
\fBRDS_SEGMENT_EMPTY\fP :
This value is returned by the \fIGET_SEGMENT_LAYER\fP macro to mean the end of the layer list returned.
.TP
\fBRDS_VIA_EMPTY\fP :
This value is returned by the \fIGET_VIA_LAYER\fP macro to mean the end of the layer list returned.
.PP
.IP B)
Global variables
.PP
long   \fBRDS_PHYSICAL_GRID\fP;
.PP
Some technolgies demand the layout to respect a physical grid. It means that all coordinates have to be a multiple of the physical grid value.
.PP
long   \fBRDS_LAMBDA\fP;
.PP
The RDS_LAMBDA value is the unity of base in which are described RDS objects (rectangles, instances, figures). This value permits to be technology independant. One Lambda units corresponds to a value explained in micro-meter.
.PP
long   \fBRDS_LAMBDA2\fP;
.PP
The RDS_LAMBDA2 is a surface unit which represents the RDS_LAMBDA value squared.
.RE
.IP II)
Description of the macros
.PP
\- char GET_SEGMENT_LAYER( Layer, Index )
.br
    char Layer;
.br
    char Index;
.RS
.PP
The \fBGET_SEGMENT_LAYER\fP macro gets all the RDS layers which compose a MBK segment. The returned value is a RDS layer or the \fBRDS_SEGMENT_EMPTY\fP value if there is no layer anymore.
.PP
\fIExample\fP :
.PP
Layer = POLY; /\(** MBK segment \(**/
.br
Index = 0;
.br
while ( LayerRds != RDS_SEGMENT_EMPTY )
.br
 {
.br
   LayerRds  = GET_SEGMENT_LAYER( Layer, Index );
.br

.br
   /\(** Treatment ... \(**/
.br

.br
   Index = Index + 1;
.br
 }
.PP
.RE
\- char GET_VIA_LAYER( Layer, Index )
.br
    char Layer;
.br
    char Index;
.RS
.PP
The \fBGET_VIA_LAYER\fP macro gets all the RDS layers which compose a MBK contact. The returned value is a RDS layer or the \fBRDS_VIA_EMPTY\fP value if there is no layer anymore.
.PP
\fIExample\fP :
.PP
Layer = CONT_VIA; /\(** MBK contact \(**/
.br
Index = 0;
.br
while ( LayerRds != RDS_VIA_EMPTY )
.br
 {
.br
   LayerRds  = GET_VIA_LAYER( Layer, Index );
.br

.br
   /\(** Treatment ... \(**/
.br

.br
   Index = Index + 1;
.br
 }
.RE
.IP III)
Function of the libRpr library
.TP
\fBloadrdsparam\fP
This function loads parameters contained in a file with extention ".rds" which is the translation file from symbolic to real. Some of these files are contained in the path "/labo/etc".See them for more information.
.TP
\fBviewrdsparam\fP
This function displays all the tables in memory filled with the loadrdsparam function.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR librds,
.BR librfm,
.BR librut,
.BR librtl,
.BR librwi,
.BR phvia,
.BR phseg


.so man1/alc_bug_report.1

