.\"   $Id: librfm.1,v 1.1 1999/05/31 17:30:14 alliance Exp $
.\" @(#)librfm.1 0.0 93/18/08 UPMC
.if t \{\
.so man1/alc_contents.mac
.XS \n%
.ti 0.2i
librfm
.XE
.XS0 \n%
.ti 0.2i
librfm
.XE0 \}
.TH LIBRFM 1 "October 1, 1997" "ASIM/LIP6" "RDS LIBRARY VERSION 202"
.SH NAME
librfm \- rfm library description
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IP I)
Description of the macros
.PP
\-  long RfmRoundLow(X)
.br
    long X;
.RS
.PP
Permits to get the lower grid step of the value \'X\' in parameter.
.RE
.PP
\-  long RfmRoundHigh(X)
.br
    long X;
.RS
.PP
Permits to get the higher grid step of the value \'X\' in parameter.
.RE
.IP II)
Functions of Rfm library
.TP
\fIsegmbkrds\fP
Converts a MBK segment to RDS segment.
.TP
\fIviambkrds\fP
Converts a MBK contact to RDS contact.
.TP
\fIrefmbkrds\fP
Converts a MBK reference to RDS reference.
.TP
\fIconmbkrds\fP
Converts a MBK connector to RDS connector.
.TP
\fIaboxmbkrds\fP
Converts a MBK abutment box to RDS abutment box.
.TP
\fIinsconmbkrds\fP
Converts all MBK connectors of an MBK instance to RDS connectors of RDS instance corresponding.
.TP
\fIinsrefmbkrds\fP
Converts all MBK references of an MBK instance to RDS references of RDS instance corresponding.
.TP
\fIinssegmbkrds\fP
Converts all MBK segments of an MBK instance to RDS segments of RDS instance corresponding.
.TP
\fIinsmbkrds\fP
Converts an MBK instance to RDS instance.
.TP
\fIfigmbkrds\fP
Converts a MBK figure to RDS figure.
.TP
\fImodelmbkrds\fP
Gets list of models contained in a figure
.TP
\fIviewrfmrec\fP
Displays caracteristics of an object using a rectangle of this object.
.TP
\fIviewrfmseg\fP
Displays caracteristics of a segment to MBK and RDS format.
.TP
\fIviewrfmvia\fP
Displays caracteristics of a contact to MBK and RDS format.
.TP
\fIviewrfmref\fP
Displays caracteristics of a reference to MBK and RDS format.
.TP
\fIviewrfmcon\fP
Displays caracteristics of a connector to MBK and RDS format.
.TP
\fIviewrfmins\fP
Displays caracteristics of an instance to MBK and RDS format.
.TP
\fIviewrfmfig\fP
Displays caracteristics of a figure to MBK and RDS format.
.TP
\fIroundrdsrec\fP
adjusts a rectangle to lambda grid step.
.ft R
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR librds,
.BR librpr,
.BR librtl,
.BR librut,
.BR librwi


.so man1/alc_bug_report.1

