.\"   $Id: ocp.1,v 1.3 2001/12/17 14:04:12 xtof Exp $
.\" @(#)Labo.l 0.0 92/09/24 UPMC; Author: Christophe ALEXANDRE
.pl -.4
.TH OCP 1 "September 27, 2001" "ASIM/LIP6" "CAO\-VLSI Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
.TP
ocp
 - Standard Cell Placer
.so man1/alc_origin.1
.SH SYNOPSIS
.TP
\fBocp\fP 
[\fBoptions\fP] [\fInetlist\fP] [\fIfilename\fP]
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBocp\fP is an automatic place tool for standard-cells.
.br

\fBinput net-list\fP
.br
The \fInetlist\fP file describes the input net-list.
.br
\fBocp\fP supports a hierarchical net-list. In this case the net-list is flattened by the placer according to the catalog file. The net-list format can be : structural VHDL, EDIF, or ALLIANCE internal format according to the environment variable \fBMBK_IN_LO\fP.
.br

\fBoutput layout\fP
.br
The file containing the placed block will have the name \fIfilename\fP. The output format is defined by the environment variable \fBMBK_OUT_PH\fP.
.br

.SH OPTIONS
.br
\fBOptional cells placement file\fP
.br
\fB-partial <NAME>\fP
.br
A user defined placement can be specified, thanks to a placement file.
.br
The optional placement file must be given by the user. It must have an extension that denotes the format defined by the environment variable \fBMBK_IN_PH\fP.
.br

\fBOptional connectors placement\fP
.br
The placement of connectors can be also specified.
.br
There are three ways to place connectors in a physical view :
.br
.br
\fB-c\fP option will automaticaly place the connectors randomly. The auto placement will set connectors on each side of the abutment box.
.br
\fB-ring\fP option will automaticaly place the connectors randomly but only on the north and south side. This option is temporary and is provided for the ring pad placement tool.
.br
\fB-ioc <NAME>\fP option will place connectors as specified by the <NAME>.ioc given file.
.br

\fBMargin\fP
.br
It is possible to force the free area of the physical view.
.br
The \fB-margin <MARGIN>\fP option allow to set The amount of free area added in percentage of the cells area.
.br
The resulting area will be equal to CELL_AREA * (1 + <MARGIN>).
.br
By default, the margin value is 0.2 (20%)
.br

\fBNumber of rows\fP
.br
\fB-rows <NR>\fP option forces the design to be placed in <NR> rows.
.br
The abutment box's width is automaticaly generated.
.br
This option won't be used if a defined placement file is given.
.br

\fBVerbose mode\fP
.br
\fB-v\fP set the verbose mode on
.br

\fBGnuplot\fP
.br
\fB-gnuplot\fP option allow to generate automaticaly gnuplot files, for editing statistics
.br
