.\"   $Id: patest.1,v 1.1 1999/05/31 17:30:14 alliance Exp $
.\" @(#)PATEST 3.0a March 01 1995 UPMC; Author: FLORENT O.
.TH PATEST 1 "October 1, 1997" "ASIM/LIP6" "CAO\-VLSI Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
.PP
\fIpatest\fP, a pattern translator for test.

.so man1/alc_origin.1
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBpatest\fP \-tomsa <\fIpatfile\fP> [\-t <\fItplfile\fP>] [\-m <\fImsafile\fP>]
.PP
\fBpatest\fP \-topat <\fImsafile\fP> [\-f <\fIpatfile\fP>] [\-p <\fIpatfile\fP>]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBpatest\fP translates patterns from ALLIANCE CAD SYSTEM world to LV500 world and vice-versa.

.PP
The \fBLV500\fP is an electronic tester for digital circuit from \fBTecktronix\fP\*R. 
It can handle up to 256 channels with a maximum resolution of 0.5 ns.

\fB1) From ALLIANCE CAD SYSTEM to LV500\fP
.PP
\fBpatest\fP \-tomsa <\fIpatfile\fP> [\-t <\fItplfile\fP>] [\-m <\fImsafile\fP>]

.TP 20
\fI\-tomsa <patfile>\fP
This is the pattern file to be traduced. This file is in PAT format.
As you cannot check the values of internal signals and internal registers 
in a manufactured chip, \fBsignal\fP and \fBregister\fP constructs are not allowed.
See \fBpat(5)\fP for more information on PAT format.
.TP 20
\fI\-t <tplfile>\fP
This is a file written in TPL format. It describes timing characteristics and
wiring information of the chip. See \fBtpl(5)\fP for more information on TPL format.
if \fBtplfile\fP is not provided, \fBpatest\fP will look for a file called "\fB<patfile>.tpl\fP"
.TP 20
\fI\-m <msafile>\fP
This is the name of the MSA file that \fBpatest\fP produce. if not provided, \fBpatest\fP
will write a file called "\fB<patfile>.msa\fP"

.PP
\fB2) From LV500 to ALLIANCE CAD SYSTEM \fP
.PP
\fBpatest\fP \-topat <\fImsafile\fP> [\-f <\fIpatfile\fP>] [\-p <\fIpatfile\fP>]

.TP 20
\fI\-topat <msafile>\fP
This is the MSA file to traduced. It usually results from the execution of a
MSA file produces by \fBpatest\fP on the LV500 tester.

.TP 20
\fI\-f <patfile>\fP
This is the name of the \fBold\fP PAT file (The PAT file wich has produced the MSA
file used on the tester). if not provided, \fBpatest\fP will look for a file called 
"\fB<msafile>.pat\fP"

.TP 20
\fI\-p <patfile>\fP
This is the name of the \fBnew\fP PAT file to produce as the result of the
execution of the old PAT file on the LV500 tester. if not provided, \fBpatest\fP
will write a file called "\fB<msafile>.pat\fP"

.SH EXAMPLE
.PP

A typical session of test is:

.TP 10
\fI(1) Produce a msa file\fP
\fBcaracvect.msa\fP is produced from the pattern file \fBcaracvect.pat\fP 
and the TPL file \fBcarac.tpl\fP: 
.br
> patest -tomsa caracvect -t carac
.br
The PAT file \fBcaracvect.pat\fP is usually verified before sending it 
to the tester using the VHDL simulator \fBasimut\fP.

.TP 10
\fI(3) Send the msa file to the tester\fP
The MSA file \fBcaracvect.msa\fP is sent to the tester using FTP 
or the \fBlv500\fP batch:
.br
> lv500 -s caracvect.msa
.br 
See \fBlv500(1)\fP for more information on the \fBlv500\fP batch.

.TP 10
\fI(3) Execute the msa file on the tester\fP
The MSA file is compiled an executed on the tester. The result is
decompiled in a MSA file (\fBrescarac.msa\fP for example). See
the Textronix Manual for informations on the LV500 tester.

.TP 10
\fI(4) Get the msa result file from the tester\fP
The MSA result file \fBrescarac.msa\fP is retrieved from the tester using FTP or
the \fBlv500\fP batch:
.br
> lv500 -s rescarac.msa
.br 
See \fBlv500(1)\fP for more information on the \fBlv500\fP batch.

.TP 10
\fI(5) Convert the msa result file to pat format\fP
The PAT file \fBrescarac.pat\fP is produced using the MSA file
\fBrescarac.msa\fP but also the old file \fBcaracvect.pat\fP.
.br
> patest -topat rescarac -f caracvect 


.SH FILES
When an error occurs during translation, \fBpatest\fP produce an error file
named \fB<patfile>.log\fP or \fB<msafile>.log\fP

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
tpl(5), pat(5), asimut(1), lv500(1)


.so man1/alc_bug_report.1

