.\"   $Id: RDS_IN.1,v 1.1 1999/05/31 17:30:13 alliance Exp $
.\" @(#)RDS_IN.1 2.11 91/08/22; Labo Cao-vlsi; Author : Frederic Petrot
.TH RDS_IN 1 "October 1, 1997" "ASIM/LIP6" "RDS ENVIRONEMENT VARIABLES"
.SH NAME
\fBRDS_IN\fP \- define the real layout input file format of rds
.SH SYNOPSYS
.nf
.if n \{\
.ft B \}
.if t \{\
.ft CR \}
c-shell running
setenv RDS_IN format
.ft R
.fi
.so man1/alc_origin.1
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBRDS_IN\fP sets the physical real input file format of the rds data structure.
The data structure will be filled with informations found in the given format
files.
.TP
valid formats are :
.RS
\- \fBcif\fP, caltech intermediate file format
.RS
Some cif standard extensions are known :
.TP
\fB9\fP \fIname\fP;
defines the name associated to the Define Symbol construct.
.TP
\fB4A\fP \fIx0 y0 x1 y1\fP;
describes the abutment box of a model. see \fBmbk\fP(1) for more on
abutment box.
\fIx0, y0, x1, y1\fP are respectively the lower left corner, and the upper
right corner of the abutment box.
.TP
\fB4I\fP \fIinstancename\fP;
assigns a name to a Call Symbol.
.TP
\fB4X\fP \fIconnectorname width x y\fP;
defines the pin called \fIconnectorname\fP, at \fIx,y\fP location,
with the given \fIwidth\fP.
This doesn't define a rectangle.
.TP
\fB4N\fP \fInodename x y\fP;
gives a name to every object from the current layer that include the given
point.
.RS
None of those extensions are generating layout, so a tool that skips cif extension will still have a correct and complete layout.
.RE
.br
\- \fBgds\fP, calma format
.RS
The gds known is a subset without text, or specific extensions for connectors.
.RE
.RE
.PP
The licit objects are square polygones, with angle multiple of 90
.ie t \(de.
.el degrees.
Circles, triangle, and other exotic objects, are strictly forbidden.
You shall ensure that your real pads follow these rules before parsing them.
.br
The variable default value is ``gds''.
.SH ERRORS
.if n \{\
.ft B \}
.if t \{\
.ft CR \}
"RDS_IN : 'xxx' unknown format"
.ft R
.RS
The argument given to the setenv is not a legal layout input format for rds.
You must changed it before any other action.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
.if n \{\
.ft B \}
.if t \{\
.ft CR \}
	setenv RDS_IN gds
.ft R
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR s2r (1),
.BR RDS_OUT (1).


.so man1/alc_bug_report.1

