.\" @(#)tas.1 5.34 complete August 18, 1998 UPMC; Karim DIOURY and Marie-Minerve LOUERAT
.TH TAS 1 "August 18, 1998 - Release 5.34" "ASIM/LIP6" "cao\-vlsi reference manual"

.SH NAME
.PP
\fBtas\fP \- A switch level static timing analyzer for CMOS circuits

.so man1/alc_origin.1

.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
tas \fI[options] root_file \fP

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBtas\fP is a  switch level, pattern independent, timing analyzer
for  CMOS  circuits. 
It gives delays with an accuracy better than 10% versus
SPICE simulation.
The input file \fIroot_file\fP is a netlist of transistors and 
capacitances and resistances of the interconnecting wires
extracted from the layout (ALLIANCE or SPICE format).
The netlist can be hierarchical and is flattened if necessary.
\fBtas\fP uses a technology file dedicated for each target process
(file with \fBelp\fP extension).
The default version works out a flattened timing view of the circuit
and takes possibly into account the resistances of wires.
In the hierarchical analysis mode, \fBtas\fP uses 
existing timing views of leaf cell blocks
to work out the timing view of the whole circuit,
and takes possibly into account the resistances of the interconnecting wires.

.PP
The default option of \fBtas\fP provides
one output, called 'general perfmodule' (\fBttx\fP format). It is  the entire
timing view of the circuit in a special format
suitable for the hierarchical analysis (\fB -hr\fP option),
the text browser of the results \fBetas(1)\fP
and the graphical display of the timing analysis results \fBxtas(1)\fP.
It contains the propagation times between reference points.
Reference points are:
         - Terminals (input or/and output of  path)
.br
         - Registers (input and output of  path)
.br
         - Register Commands (output of  path)
.br
         - Precharged signals (optional, input and output of path)
.br

.PP
This  'general perfmodule' output file can also  have the \fBttv\fP 
extension, 
with the \fB -n\fP option (or \fB -nvx\fP option), 
it is another format suitable for small circuits and
readability of the results.
It is possible to obtain all critical paths in the 'general perfmodule' 
(options \fB-a -n\fP or \fB-a -nvx\fP). In this case \fBtas\fP may give 
between any actual pair of reference points \fIA\fP and \fIB\fP, four delays: 
\fBTPHH\fP, \fBTPLL\fP, \fBTPHL\fP and \fBTPLH\fP. Where \fBTPxy\fP means  maximal
propagation delay  from \fIA\fP to \fIB\fP, when \fIA\fP goes to 'x' level and 
\fIB\fP
to  the 'y' level. 

.PP
Another possible output is the 'detailed perfmodule'. The corresponding
file contains detailed informations
on gate delays.
This file has the \fBdtx\fP extension 
with the \fB-t\fP option, it is the detailed 
timing view of the circuit in a special format
suitable for the hierarchical analysis (\fB -hr\fP option),
the text browser of the results \fBetas(1)\fP
and the graphical display of the timing analysis results \fBxtas(1)\fP.
This file can also have the \fBdtv\fP extension 
with the \fB-t -n\fP options (or \fB-t -nvx\fP options), 
it is another format suitable for small circuits and
readability of the results.

.SH OPTIONS
.PP

Options may appear in  any  order before or after the
input filename.
Options called with one single letter can be concatenated
(\fB-bei\fP for instance).

.TP 10
\fI-a\fP
To be used always together with \fB-n\fP or \fB-nvx\fP options.
\fBtas\fP reports all the paths in the \fBttv\fP file. 
With this option, beware that a large
circuit can generate a \fBvery\fP large 'perfmodule file' \fBttv\fP.
When this option is used with the \fB-xout="ref_out"\fP option,
\fBtas\fP gives all the paths associated with the
reference point only \fIref_out\fP (see \fB-xout\fP option)
in the \fBttv\fP 'general perfmodule' file.
When this option is used with the \fB-xin="ref_in"\fP option,
\fBtas\fP gives all the paths associated with the
reference point only \fIref_in\fP (see \fB-xin\fP option)
in the \fBttv\fP 'general perfmodule' file.


.TP 10
\fI-b\fP
To be used only in the flattened analysis mode (default option).
Activate transistor orientation. 
This orientation is performed during the phase of 
transistor netlist disassembling (see \fByagle(1)\fP).

.TP 10
\fI-bk\fP
This option allows \fBtas\fP to cut the RC interconnecting nets
during the flatten or hierarchical analysis.

.TP 10
\fI-c\fP
To be used only in the flattened analysis mode (default option).
Generate a file which contains the cone view. 
It is called \fIoutput_file\fP with the \fBcns\fP extension.
This file is mainly used for debugging (see \fByagle(1)\fP).

.TP 10
\fI-cl\fP
To be used with the \fB-fl\fP option.
It enables to share the same control signal between several master-slave flip-flops.

.TP 10
\fI-cout=x\fP
A given capacitance is added to all output terminals. 
The value \fIx\fP is given in pico-farad  (float).

.TP 10
\fI-ctc=x\fP
With this option all cross-talk capacitances are 
multiplied by the factor x. x should be between 0 and 2.

.TP 10
\fI-d\fP
When this option is set
\fBtas\fP has a special behavior on differential latches.
The transistor close to the memory point is known to be the data connector,
the second transistor is known to be the clock connector.
Without this option, the opposite convention is assumed.

.TP 10
\fI-e\fP
Generate a file which contains the signal slopes
which are computed by \fBtas\fP for each input of a cone.
It is called \fIoutput_file\fP with the \fBslo\fP extension.

.TP 10
\fI-elm\fP
The information required to save the propagation time resulting from the interconnecting in elmore delay data structure.
wires is worked out from one hierachical level to the other 
with a special data structure, the \fBelm\fP one.
This representation takes into account resistance and capacitance
of interconnecting wires (poly, alu1, alu2) and enables to use various models 
for analyzing timing of interconnections.
It is available also for the flatten analysis of the leaf cells.


.TP 10
\fI-f\fP
In order to decrease the number of paths of 
the 'general perfmodule', \fBtas\fP can keep paths 
starting or stoppping at some special signals that are not
reference points ('factorizing points') when this option is used.
These points are automatically detected by \fBtas\fP,
but they can also be chosen by the user through the \fBinf\fP file
(see \fB-i\fP option and \fBinf(5)\fP).
To be used in the hierarchical mode, it should have been used in the
leaf cells analysis and all along the hierarchical levels.


.TP 10
\fI-fcl\fP
This option makes the disassembling tool  \fByagle\fP use
library-based transistor net-list recognition (see \fByagle(1)\fP and \fBfcl(5)\fP).
This allows the user to specify a number of net-lists to be identified
within the circuit to be disassembled. These net-lists are specified
in the Spice format and can contain a number of special directives for
the marking of the identified signals and transistors in the circuit.
With this option, latches are also detected.
It can be used with the  \fB-nl\fP option to disable the latch detection.
It can be used with the  \fB-fl\fP option to enable also the 
master-slave flip-flop automatic detection when possible.

.TP 10
\fI-fl\fP
This option enables the automatic detection of master-slave flip-flop based on a special
latch ``with conflict'' when possible.
By default, the master latch is chosen to be the memory point,
this can be changed using the  \fB-ls\ option.

.TP 10
\fI-fr\fP
With this option, \fBtas\fP reports errors  and warnings
in French.

.TP 10
\fI-h\fP
The help option.  It  gives  a summary  of all \fBtas\fP
options.

.TP 10
\fI-hr\fP
The hierachical analysis mode option. It assumes that the circuit under study is 
hierarchical (as many levels of hierarchy as needed). The timing analysis
performed on the whole circuit 
uses the existing hierarchy defined by the circuit designer. 
\fBtas\fP assumes that the timing views of the
leaf blocks already exist (\fBttx\fP and possibly \fBdtx\fP view of the blocks)
and models the propagation times resulting from 
block interconnecting , possibly
taking into account the resistances of interconnecting wires
between blocks.
By default the computation of propagation times resulting 
from the interconnecting wires
at any level of the hierarchy 
uses the Elmore model.
When the \fB-elm\fP option is used the timing information
on interconnecting wires is saved with a special data structure (elmore delay).
When the \fB-nr\fP option is used the timing information ignores
the interconnecting resistances
(see \fB-elm -nr\fP options).
The analysis of some interconnecting signals can be precised in the \fBinf\fP file,
it allows a special analysis of the clock signal for example.


.TP 10
\fI-i\fP
This option makes \fBtas\fP read the \fBinf\fP  file.   This
file has the same name than the \fIroot_file\fP
with the \fBinf\fP extension.  It  may  contain  mutual
exclusion  conditions  on  ports  of  the circuit for
the functional analysis process
as well as information about signal renaming, path elimination, case analysis,
precharged signals, intermediary points, path selection,
factorizing points and interconnecting analysis (hierarchical mode)
(see \fB-f\fP option,  \fBinf(5)\fP and \fByagle(1)\fP).

.TP 10
\fI-in=format\fP
Should  be  used to  force  the  input  netlist format
(prevailing over the environment variables) 
\fBtas\fP can read the following formats:

 - Alliance netlist          : \fBal\fP
.br
 - Compass extracted netlist  : \fBfne\fP
.br
 - Compass logical netlist    : \fBhns\fP
.br
 - Spice netlist              : \fBspi\fP
.br

.TP 10
\fI-lm=value\fP
To be used with the hierarchical mode (\fB-hr\fP option).
This option enables the user to indicate the maximum size of the cache memory to be used
by \fBtas\fP (MegaBytes).
During the analysis \fBtas\fP tries to use less than \fBlm\fP megabytes,
if it does not succeed \fBtas\fP uses more and issues a warning.

.TP 10
\fI-ls\fP
To be used with the \fB-fl\fP option.
It chooses the slave latch as the memory point of the flip-flop.

.TP 10
\fI-lv\fP
With this option, \fBtas\fP  assumes that the analyzed circuit
will  \fInot\fP be used as instance on a higher level of
hierarchy.
Consider the  following example  where \fIA\fP, \fIB\fP  and \fIC\fP are
the terminals  of a circuit which contains two inverters:

.LP
.DS C


     |\\
 A---| o----------------B
     |/     |
     I1     |   I2
            |   |\\
            ----| o-----C
                |/

.DE

.RS 10
.PP
with the \fB-lv\fP option, \fBtas\fP gives \fIA\fP->\fIB\fP and \fIA->C\fP
paths. But if this block is used  as an instance,  the delay  of
the last path (\fIA\fP->\fIC\fP) depends strongly upon the
capacitances introduced on the \fIB\fP terminal.
.PP
By default, \fBtas\fP cuts paths if necessary
for taking into account  hierarchical  capacitances.
In this  example, it gives \fIA\fP->\fIB\fP and \fIB\fP->\fIC\fP  paths.
.RE

.TP 10
\fI-mg\fP
Merge the gate delays and the interconnection RC delays in the flatten analysis mode. By default the gate delays and the interconnection RC delays are separated.

.TP 10
\fI-min\fP
\fBtas\fP calculates and reports in the 'perfmodule files' 
also the shortest paths.
By default \fBtas\fP gives only the longest paths between two signals.

.TP 10
\fI-n\fP
This option must be used to generate the 'not new' format files of \fBtas\fP. 
The result files are in the \fBttv\fP format for the 'general perfmodule file' 
and in the \fBdtv\fP format for the 'detailed perfmodule file'.
When this option is set, the options \fB-a\fP \fB-xin\fP \fB-xout\fP
can be used.

.TP 10
\fI-nl\fP
To be used with the  \fB-fcl\fP option.
Disables the detection of latches and memory points using the built-in latch library.
This option is useful if all memory points are to be recognized by the use
of a user-defined library with the \fB-fcl\fP option (see \fByagle(1)\fP and \fBfcl(5)\fP).

.TP 10
\fI-nr\fP
Only the capacitances and not the resistances of the interconnecting wires are
taken into account to compute the propagation times.


.TP 10
\fI-nv\fP
When this option is set, the interface and the internal signal
of the \fBttx\fP or \fBttv\fP
and of the \fBdtx\fP or \fBdtv\fP description of the circuit are not vectorized
(see \fByagle(1)\fP).

.TP 10
\fI-nvx\fP
With this option, \fBtas\fP generates both \fBttx\fP and \fBttv\fP formats
for the 'general perfmodule file' and both \fBdtx\fP and \fBdtv\fP formats
for the 'detailed perfmodule file' (\fB-t\fP option).
When this option is set, the options \fB-a\fP \fB-xin\fP \fB-xout\fP
can be used for the \fBdtv\fP or \fBttv\fP formats.


.TP 10
\fI-o\fP
To be used only in the flattened analysis mode (default option).
Activate transistor orientation taking into account the  \fB_s\fP
convention on signal's names.
This orientation is performed during the phase of
transistor netlist disassembling (see \fByagle(1)\fP).




.TP 10
\fI-opc=n\fP
To be used only in the flattened analysis mode (default option).
This option takes into account 'out-of-path' capacitances. 

.LP
.DS L


                  | <---pass transistor T1
                 ===            |\\
              ___| |____________| o------
              |       |         |/
              |      === C1 : out of path
              |       |      capacitance
              |      ~~~
     |\\       |      |\\
 A---| o-------------| o-----B
     |/              |/

.DE

.RS 10
.PP
In  this  example,  the  delay  of  the  path \fIA->B\fP
depends upon the \fIC1\fP  capacitance through \fIT1\fP 
transistor. In some case, only a part of these 'out-of-path'
capacitance must be taken into account.
The \fB-opc\fP option  indicates a factor  to reduce this
effect. It is expressed by percent  and default is
100%.
.RE

.TP 10
\fI-out=filename\fP
When this option is used, the user can choose the name of 
the output files \fIfilename.*\fP.

.TP 10
\fI-p=n\fP
To be used only in the flattened analysis mode (default option).
This option sets  the  \fBdepth\fP  for  the  functional
analysis. This is the number of gates that will be
taken into  account for the functional analysis, 
so that \fBtas\fP can detect re-convergence 
in the circuit. The default value is 7.
When \fBdepth\fP=0, the functional analysis process is
disabled (see \fByagle(1)\fP).

.TP 10
\fI-pch\fP
To be used only in the flattened analysis mode (default option).
Without this option, reference points are terminals, 
registers or register commands. With this option, precharged
signals are also considered as reference points (input and output of path).
A signal is considered as precharged if its name is
suffixed  by  \fB_p\fP  or if  it is  declared  in the \fBinf\fP file
(see \fBinf(5)\fP, \fByagle(1)\fP).

.TP 10
\fI-pwl[$]\fP
When this option is set, \fBtas\fP generates 2 files 
called  \fBPwlFall\fP and \fBPwlRise\fP which
give, at the SPICE format, the input terminal slopes used by \fBtas\fP
to compute the gate delays (respectively falling
and rising slopes).

If the option \fB$\fP is set, \fBtas\fP exits after
generating the two files.

.TP 10
\fI-s\fP
Silent mode, in order to run \fBtas\fP in batch mode.
With this option, only error or warning  messages  
will  be  reported.

.TP 10
\fI-slope=value\fP
When this option is set, \fBtas\fP uses the slope of value
\fIvalue\fP (picosecond) as the input signal driving every external input terminals.
The default value is \fI1000\fP.


.TP 10
\fI-swc=n\fP
To be used only in the flattened analysis mode (default mode).
\fBtas\fP  reports  terminal  capacitances  in the 'general perfmodule'
(\fBttv\fP file).
Without this option 100% 'out-of-path' capacitances
associated to an input terminal
are taken into account.
To reduce this percentage, use the \fB-swc\fP option.
This  option  does not  change the delay computation.
It affects only the \fBttv\fP or \fBttx\fP or \fBdtv\fP 
or \fBdtx\fP files.

.TP 10
\fI-t[$]\fP
With this  option  \fBtas\fP  generates the 'detailed
perfmodule' (\fBdtx\fP or \fBdtv\fP extension)  which  contains the gate delays.
If '$' argument is used, \fBtas\fP stops after \fBdtx\fP or \fBdtv\fP 
generation (\fBtas\fP -t$ \fIroot_file\fP).

.TP 10
\fI-tec=filename\fP
Indicates which technology file should be used
(prevailing over the environment variable). By
default \fBtas\fP uses a one micron technology described
in the \fI$TOP/etc/prol05.elp\fP file where \fI$TOP\fP is the
Alliance's root directory.

.TP 10
\fI-uk\fP
With this option, \fBtas\fP reports errors  and warnings
in English, it is the default option.

.TP 10
\fI-x[=val_min]|[=:val_max]|[=val_min:val_max]\fP
To be used with the \fB-n\fP or the \fB-nvx\fP options.
If the \fB-x\fP option is used  without argument, the 'general perfmodule'
(\fBttv\fP format)
will contain  details of \fBall\fP  critical paths.
Beware that this file can be very large.
With \fI=val_min\fP  argument, where \fIval_min\fP is a delay in pico-second  
(integer), only paths with delay greater than \fIval_min\fP will be
detailed.  
With \fI=:val_max\fP  argument, where \fIval_max\fP is a delay in pico-second  
(integer), only paths with delay smaller than \fIval_max\fP will be
detailed.  
With \fI=val_min:val_max\fP argument, only paths with delay between 
\fIval_min\fP and
\fIval_max\fP will be detailed.  

.TP 10
\fI-xin="ref_in"\fP
To be used with the \fB-n\fP or the \fB-nvx\fP options.
Very useful for large circuits and clock checking. 
When this option is set \fBtas\fP reports in
the 'general perfmodule' (\fBttv\fP), only the critical path associated
to the \fIref_in\fP signal. The \fIref_in\fP signal
can either be :
.br
	-a register, or
.br
	-an input terminal, or
.br
	-a bidirectional terminal. 

When  this option is used with the \fB-a\fP option, \fBtas\fP reports all the 
functional paths
associated with the \fIref_in\fP signal in the \fBttv\fP file.

To find the proper name of the signal you want to analyze, take a look
at the \fBdtv\fP file (see the \fB-t\fP option). Note that
vectorized signals have to be like \fIsignal_name[number]\fP).
It is possible to specify more than one signal by using several \fB-xin\fP 
options. You can also use \fIregular expression\fP containing
as many '*' as you want. You can ask for a part of a vectorized signal
(for example \fI-xin="sig*a*" -xin="vector[2-5]\fP").
You can also do path selection thanks to the \fBinf\fP file (see 
\fBinf(5)\fP).

.TP 10
\fI-xout="ref_out"\fP
To be used with the \fB-n\fP or the \fB-nvx\fP options.
Very useful for large circuits.
When this option is set \fBtas\fP reports in 
the 'general perfmodule' (\fBttv\fP), only the critical path associated
to the \fIref_out\fP signal. The \fIref_out\fP signal
can either be :
.br
	-a register, or
.br
	-a register command, or
.br
	-an output terminal, or
.br
	-a bidirectional terminal. 

When  this option is used with the \fB-a\fP option, \fBtas\fP reports all the 
functional paths
associated with the \fIref_out\fP signal in the \fBttv\fP file.
 
To find the proper name of the signal you want to analyze, take a look
at the \fBdtv\fP file (see the \fB-t\fP option). Note that
vectorized signals have to be like \fIsignal_name[number]\fP).
It is possible to specify more than one signal by using several \fB-xout\fP 
options.
You can also use \fIregular expression\fP containing
as many '*' as you want. You can ask for a part of a vectorized signal
(for example \fI-xout="sig*a*" -xout="vector[2-5]\fP").
You can also do path selection thanks to the \fBinf\fP file (see 
\fBinf(5)\fP).

.TP 10
\fI-z\fP
To be used only in the flattened analysis mode (default option).
When this option is set, the functional analysis phase exploits high
impedance nodes. This allows, for instance, the resolution of false
conflicts in circuits which use precharged logic (see \fByagle(1)\fP).

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

.TP 20
\fIMBK_CATA_LIB\fP
If the input netlist is  hierarchical, the leaf cells
may  not be in the working directory MBK_WORK_LIB.
In that case, MBK_CATA_LIB indicates where \fBtas\fP  can find
the cells to flatten the netlist to the transistor level.

.TP 20
\fIMBK_IN_LO\fP
Indicates the format of the input netlist :
.br
- Alliance netlist          : \fBal\fP
.br
- Compass extracted netlist  : \fBfne\fP
.br
- Compass logical netlist    : \fBhns\fP
.br
- Spice netlist              : \fBspi\fP
.br

.TP 20
\fIMBK_SPI_TN\fP
If the input  netlist  is in  the  SPICE format, this
variable indicates what is the name of the NMOS model
transistor. Default is \fItn\fP

.TP 20
\fIMBK_SPI_TP\fP
If the input  netlist  is in  the  SPICE format, this
variable indicates what is the name of the PMOS model
transistor. Default is \fItp\fP

.TP 20
\fIELP_TECHNO_NAME\fP
To indicate the  technology  file. Default is \fI$TOP/etc/prol05.elp\fP
where \fI$TOP\fP is the Alliance's root directory.

.TP 20
\fIFCL_LIB_NAME\fP
The name of the file (located in \fBMBK_WORK_LIB\fP ) containing the list
of cells in the user-defined cell library used if the \fB-fcl\fP option is set. 
The default is \FBLIBRARY\fP

.TP 20
\fIFCL_LIB_PATH\fP
Indicates the access path to the directory containing the user-defined cell
library used if the  \fB-fcl\fP option is set. The default is a subdirectory
\fBcells\fP in \fBMBK_WORK_LIB\fP.


.TP 20
\fIMBK_VDD\fP
Sets the name of power supply
in the disassembling phase (see \fByagle(1)\fP). \fIvdd\fP is the  default.
Every external port of the circuit whose name contains
this string will be considered as a power supply.

.TP 20
\fIMBK_VSS\fP
Sets the name of the ground
in the disassembling phase (see \fByagle(1)\fP. \fIvss\fP  is  the  default.
Every external port of the circuit whose name contains
this string will be considered as a ground.

.TP 20
\fIMBK_WORK_LIB\fP
Indicates  where tas  has to read the input file  and
write the resulting files.


.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
\fBtas\fP \-nvx \-t  \-f \-cout=0.5   adder   

.PP
In  this example
all of the output terminals are  considered to  have a  load
of  500 fF . \fBtas\fP  performs
a flattened timing analysis with factorization 
and possibly interconnecting extracted wires and
generates  two detailed perfmodule \fBdtx\fP and  \fBdtv\fP
and two general perfmodule  one whole  \fBttx\fP 
that is the entire view of the circuit suitable for 
the text browser \fBetas\fP, the graphical display \fBxtas\fP
and the hierarchical analysis
and the other one that is \fBttv\fP that contains only the critical path. 

.SH OUTPUT FILES
The generated files are called \fBoutput_file.*\fP that is
either \fBroot_file.*\fP (default option)
or \fBfilename.*\fP (\fB-o\fP option).

.TP 20
\fIoutput_file.ttx\fP
The  'general perfmodule', containing  all critical
paths between two reference points, in a special format
 suitable for
the text browser \fBetas\fP, the graphical display \fBxtas\fP
and the hierarchical analysis
.

.TP 20
\fIoutput_file.dtx\fP
The   'detailed perfmodule', containing  all local
delays (gate delays), in a special format,
 suitable for
the text browser \fBetas\fP, the graphical display \fBxtas\fP
and the hierarchical analysis,
created if the \fB-t\fP option is used.

.TP 20
\fIoutput_file.ttv\fP
The  'general perfmodule', containing  critical
paths between two reference points. 
Created when the \fB-n\fP or \fB-nvx\fP options are used.

.TP 20
\fIoutput_file.dtv\fP       
The   'detailed perfmodule', containing  local
delays (gate delays), created if the \fB-n -t\fP or \fB-nvx -t\fP
options
are used.


.TP 20
\fIoutput_file.slo\fP       
The  slope file  containing  slopes of all signals.
Created if the \fB-e\fP option is used.

.TP 20
\fIoutput_file.cns\fP       
The  file containing the cone view (gate netlist) of the circuit.
Used for debugging.
Created if the \fB-c\fP option is used.

.TP 20
\fIoutput_file.loop\fP      
If a combinatorial loop is  detected in the circuit
\fBtas\fP  reports  it in the \fBloop\fP file.

.TP 20
\fIoutput_file.rcx\fP      
The file contains the description of the interconnecting wires
for one level of the hierarchy to be used at higher levels
of the hierarchy.
Created if the \fB-hr\fP option is used.
By default the intermediary information is saved using a RC tree network.
If the \fB-elm\fP option is used the intermediary information is saved using the
special \fBelm\fP data strucure.

.TP 20
\fIPwlFall\fP and \fIPwlRise\fP 
Contain the voltage slope generator,
(falling and rising)
used by \fBtas\fP, at the SPICE format.
Created if the \fB-pwl\fP option is used.



.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
     xtas(1), etas(1), yagle(1), lynx(1), dtv(5), ttv(5), inf(5), fcl(5), losig(3)

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
     This release of \fBtas\fP does not perform false path analysis.
It has the graphical interface \fBxtas\fP.

.so man1/alc_bug_report.1


