.\"                ,,,
.\"               (o o)
.\"  ####=====oOO--(_)--OOO=========================================####
.\"  ##                                                               ##
.\"  ##   This file is part of FPT : A Formal Proof Toolkit           ##
.\"  ##   (C) 1996, MASI, CAO-VLSI Team                               ##
.\"  ##                                                               ##
.\"  ##   File            :  magic.1 (manual file)                    ##
.\"  ##   Author          :  Olivier SIROL                            ##
.\"  ##   Date            :  Sep 1996                                 ##
.\"  ##                                                               ##
.\"  ##   E-mail support  :  cao-vlsi@masi.ibp.fr                     ##
.\"  ##                                                               ##
.\"  ####===========================================================####
.\" 
.\" 
.\"   $Id: xmbk.1,v 1.1 1999/05/31 17:30:14 alliance Exp $
.\" 
.\" 

.TH XMBK 1 "October 1, 1997" "ASIM/LIP6" "cao\-vlsi reference manual"
.SH NAME
.I xmbk
\-  A simple way to set alliance environnement variables

.so man1/alc_origin.1

.SH SYNOPSIS

.TP
\fBxmbk\fP [\fI-h\fP] [\fI-u\fP] [\fI-c\fP]
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Xmbk
is a graphical interactive tool that let you set some environment variables 
used by Alliance CAD tools whitin the shell session it has been executed.
.I Xmbk
lets you also save this environnement in a script file for later use.
.sp
This program is self explanatory : baloon help will appear when leaving the
cursor on an environnement variable name.
.sp
.I Xmbk
prints shell commands for setting these environment variables.
For this output to take effect, \fIxmbk\fP must either be evaluated
as part of the command line (usually done with a shell alias or function) or
else redirected to a file which can then be read in.  From the C shell (usually
known as \fI/bin/csh\fP), the following alias could be defined in the 
user's \fI.cshrc\fP (Don't forget the '\\' before the word xmbk to avoid alias loop.) :

.sp
.nf
        %  alias xmbk 'eval \fC`\fP\\xmbk\fC -c\fP`'
.fi
.sp
When he wants to change its Alliance Environment, the user would type:
.sp
.nf
        %  xmbk
.fi
.sp
Users of versions of the Bourne shell (usually known as \fI/bin/sh\fP) that 
don't have command
functions will need to send the output to a temporary file and the read it back
in with the ``.'' command ('eval' should work whith bash the same way as csh) :
.sp
.nf
        $  xmbk > /tmp/out
        $  .\0/tmp/out
.fi
.SH OPTIONS
The following options may be used with \fIxmbk\fP:
.TP 8
.B \-u
This option indicates that Bourne shell commands should be generated.
.TP 8
.B \-c
This option indicates that C shell commands should be generated.


.SH FILES
.TP 15
~/.profile
user's alias for the command.
.TP 15
~/.cshrc
user's alias for the command.



.SH SEE ALSO
.br
\fBcsh\fP(1),
\fBtcsh\fP(1),
\fBsh\fP(1),
\fBbash\fP(1),
\fBMBK_IN_LO\fP(1),
\fBMBK_IN_PH\fP(1),
\fBMBK_OUT_LO\fP(1),
\fBMBK_OUT_PH\fP(1),
\fBMBK_CATA_LIB\fP(1),
\fBMBK_CATAL_NAME\fP(1),
\fBMBK_TARGET_LIB\fP(1),
\fBMBK_WORK_LIB\fP(1),
\fBMBK_VDD\fP(1),
\fBMBK_VSS\fP(1),
\fBELP_TECHNO_NAME\fP(1),
\fBRDS_TECHNO_NAME\fP(1)

.so man1/alc_bug_report.1

