.\" @(#)abstract.1 1.0  15 mars 1995 UPMC; DICTUS Nathalie
.TH ABSTRACT 1 "15 mars 1995" "Release 1.0" "ALLIANCE USER COMMANDS"

.SH NAME
.PP
\fBabstract\fP \- Synthetizes a behavioral description from a structural description

.SH ORIGIN
This software belongs to the
.B ALLIANCE
CAD system from the
.br
CAO-VLSI team at MASI laboratory, University P. et M. Curie
.br
4, place Jussieu ; 75252 PARIS Cedex 05 ; FRANCE
.br
Fax: (33-1) 44.27.62.86 ; E-mail: cao-vlsi@masi.ibp.fr

.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
abstract \fIroot_structural_file\fP \fI[behavioral_file]\fP

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBabstract\fP synthetizes a VHDL behavioral data-flow description from a multilevel structural description. It flattens the structural description (it can be
a hierarchy of macro block) until the cells which have a behavioral
description. The output is a VHDL data-flow description.

.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
\fBroot_structural_file\fP is the filename of the root of the structural
description file.

\fBbehavioral_file\fP is the optional filename of the generated behavioral description file.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP 20
\fIMBK_WORK_LIB\fP
Path of the directory that contains the structural description and where is generated the behavioral description.
.TP 20
\fIMBK_CATA_LIB\fP
List of directories containing leaf cell descriptions. 
The default path is the current directory (see mbk(1)).
.TP 20
\fIMBK_CATAL_NAME\fP
Indicates the file where the behavioral description files are given. This serves
to abstract to stop the flatten of the structural root circuit (see mbk(1)).
.TP 20
\fIMBK_IN_LO\fP
file extension for structural entity (see mbk(1)).

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
abstract adder32 
.PP
abstract adder32  add32

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
vhdl(5), mbk(1), MBK_WORK_LIB(8), MBK_CATA_LIB(8), MBK_CATAL_NAME(8), MBK_IN_LO(8).

.SH BUGS
.PP
Please e-mail to \fIcao-vlsi@masi.ibp.fr\fP for bug report and suggestions.
