.\"   $Id: ocr.1,v 1.1 2002/03/15 14:37:10 hcl Exp $
.\" @(#)Labo.l 0.0 92/09/24 UPMC; Author: Hugo CLEMENT
.pl -.4
.TH OCR 1 "January 11, 2002" "ASIM/LIP6" "CAO\-VLSI Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
.TP
ocr
 - An over-the-cell router
.so man1/alc_origin.1
.SH SYNOPSIS
.TP
\fBocr\fP 
[\fBoptions\fP] -L <\fIlogical_view\fP> -P <\fIplaced_view\fP> -O <\fIrouted_view\fP>
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBocr\fP is an automatic router tool for standard-cells.
.br

\fBinput net-list\fP
.br
The \fIlogical_view\fP and \fIplaced_view\fP files describe the input net-list.
.br
\fBocr\fP supports a hierarchical net-list. In this case the net-list is flattened by the router according to the catalog file. The file format of the input files is set respectively by the environment variable \fBMBK_IN_LO\fP and \fBMBK_IN_PH\fP.
.br

\fBoutput layout\fP
.br
The file containing the routed block will have the name \fIrouted_view\fP. The output format is defined by the environment variable \fBMBK_OUT_PH\fP.
.br

.SH OPTIONS
.br

\fBNumber of layers\fP
.br
\fB-l [0-9]+\fP
.br
This paramaters sets how many layers the router is allowed to use. The maximun is 5 (ie up to, and including, ALU6). The default is the minimum : 2, ie use only ALU2 and ALU3.

.br

\fBIterations\fP
.br
\fB-i [0-9]+\fP
.br
Tells the router to stop its main loop when it reaches N iterations. The default is to loop till core dump.
.br

\fBVerbose mode\fP
.br
\fB-v\fP set the verbose mode on
.br
\fB-vv\fP produces a lot of output
.br
\fB-d\fP for debugging purpose
.br

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.PP
\fBocr\fP uses the environment variables MBK_VDD and MBK_VSS to know
the name of the power signals vdd and vss.
.br

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
ocp(1), MBK_IN_LO(1), MBK_IN_PH(1), MBK_OUT_PH(1), MBK_VDD(1), MBK_VSS(1)
.so man1/alc_bug_report.1
