.\"   $Id: dplib.5,v 1.1 1999/05/31 17:30:26 alliance Exp $
.TH DPLIB 5 "October 1, 1997" "ASIM/LIP6" "FITPATH - User Cell Library"
.so man1/alc_origin.1
.SH NAME
\fBdplib\fP \- Cell library for data-path custom operators.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ta  4n +4n +2n
	With the cells of the \fBdplib\fP library, a designer can do the two
following things :
.br
		\fB-\fP	Build heterogeneous operators using \fBGenLib(1)\fP.
.br
		\fB-\fP	Synthetize blocs of glue logic using \fBscmap(1)\fP.
.br

	The functionality set of the cells is nearly the same as the \fBsclib\fP
library. All cell terminals are of the \fIDATA\fP type. As all cells of
the \fBAlliance\fP CAD system, the layout use the \fIsymbolic layout\fP
approach.
.br
	In order to use this library you must include his access path in the
\fBMBK_CATA_LIB\fP environment variable. Notice that this access path
depend on where you have install the \fBAlliance\fP distribution package.
.br

.ta  4n +2n +9n +2n
	For each cell, six files are provided :
.br
	\fB-\fP	\fIcell\fP.vbe	:	VHDL behavioral description.
.br
	\fB-\fP	\fIcell\fP.ap	:	Symbolic layout.
.br
	\fB-\fP	\fIcell\fP.al	:	Transistor netlist, for timing analysis.
.br
	\fB-\fP	\fIcell\fP.ai	:	Icon.
.br
	\fB-\fP	\fIcell\fP.5	:	Manual file.
.br
	\fB-\fP	\fIcell\fP.ps	:	Postscript documentation.
.br

.nf
.ta +10n +2n +12n
.cs R 16
\fBDrivers :\fP
b1_dp	:	(drive = 2)	o <= i;
p1_dp	:	(drive = 4)	o <= i;
n1_dp	:	(drive = 1)	o <= not( i );
np1_dp	:	(drive = 2)	o <= not( i );
ndrv_dp	:	(drive = 4)	o <= not( i );

\fBBoolean functions :\fP
a2_dp	:	(drive = 1)	o <=     i0 and i1;
a2p_dp	:	(drive = 2)	o <=     i0 and i1;
na2_dp	:	(drive = 1)	o <= not(i0 and i1);
na2p_dp	:	(drive = 2)	o <= not(i0 and i1);

a3_dp	:	(drive = 1)	o <=     i0 and i1 and i2;
a3p_dp	:	(drive = 2)	o <=     i0 and i1 and i2;
na3_dp	:	(drive = 1)	o <= not(i0 and i1 and i2);
na3p_dp	:	(drive = 2)	o <= not(i0 and i1 and i2);

a4_dp	:	(drive = 1)	o <=     i0 and i1 and i2 and i3;
a4p_dp	:	(drive = 2)	o <=     i0 and i1 and i2 and i3;
na4_dp	:	(drive = 1)	o <= not(i0 and i1 and i2 and i3);

o2_dp	:	(drive = 1)	o <=     i0 or i1;
op2_dp	:	(drive = 2)	o <=     i0 or i1;
no2_dp	:	(drive = 1)	o <= not(i0 or i1);
nop2_dp	:	(drive = 2)	o <= not(i0 or i1);
.bp
o3_dp	:	(drive = 1)	o <=     i0 or i1 or i2;
op3_dp	:	(drive = 2)	o <=     i0 or i1 or i2;
no3_dp	:	(drive = 1)	o <= not(i0 or i1 or i2);
nop3_dp	:	(drive = 2)	o <= not(i0 or i1 or i2);

xr2_dp	:	(drive = 1)	o <=     i0 xor i1;
nxr2_dp	:	(drive = 1)	o <= not(i0 xor i1);

noa3_dp	:	(drive = 1)	f <= not((i0  or i1) and i2);
nao3_dp	:	(drive = 1)	f <= not((i0 and i1)  or i2);
noa4_dp	:	(drive = 1)	f <= not((i0  or i1   or i2) and i3);
nao4_dp	:	(drive = 1)	f <= not((i0 and i1  and i2)  or i);

noue4_dp	:	(drive = 1)	f <= not((i0  or i1) and  i2 and i3);
neou4_dp	:	(drive = 1)	f <= not((i0 and i1)  or (i2  or i3));

annup_dp	:	(drive = 1)	o <= not((i0 or i1) and (i2 or i3));

.cs R
\fBMultiplexer :\fP
mx2_dp	:	(drive = 1)	2 input mux, two controls.
mx2_dp	:	(drive = 2)	2 input mux, two controls.
nmx2_dp	:	(drive = 1)	2 input mux, two controls, complemented output.

mx3_dp	:	(drive = 1)	3 input mux, three controls.

\fBTristates :\fP
ts_dp	:		Tristate with direct output.
tsn_dp	:		Tristate with complemented output.

\fBMemory components :\fP
ms_dp	:		D Flip-Flop.
msn_dp	:		D Flip-Flop, complemented output.
msx_dp	:		D Flip-Flop, dual output.
mssx_dp	:		D Flip-Flop, dual output, set.
msrx_dp	:		D Flip-Flop, dual output, reset.

ms2_dp	:		D Flip-Flop, scan-path.
ms2n_dp	:		D Flip-Flop, scan-path, complemented output.
ms2x_dp	:		D Flip-Flop, scan-path, dual output.
ms2sx_dp	:		D Flip-Flop, scan-path, dual output, set.
ms2rx_dp	:		D Flip-Flop, scan-path, dual output, reset.
.bp
\fBMiscellaneous :\fP
one_dp	:		Pull down.
zero_dp	:		Pull up.

cry_dp	:		Carry part of the full adder.
sum_dp	:		Sum part of the full adder.
.SH SEE ALSO
.ft B
sclib(1), scmap(1),
fpgen(1), dpr(1), genlib(1), mbk(1),
DP_DEFLOFIG(3), DP_SAVLOFIG(3), DP_LOCON(3), DP_IMPORT(3),
DP_INV(3), DP_BUSE(3), DP_AND2(3), DP_NAND2(3), DP_AND3(3), DP_NAND3(3),
DP_OR2(3), DP_NOR2(3), DP_OR3(3), DP_NOR3(3), DP_XOR2(3), DP_XNOR2(3),
DP_NAND2MASK(3), DP_NOR2MASK(3), DP_XNOR2MASK(3), DP_CONST(3),
DP_NMUX2CS(3), DP_MUX2CS(3), DP_MUX3CS(3), DP_MUX4CS(3), DP_MUX5CS(3),
DP_BUSE(3), DP_NBUSE(3), DP_ADD2F(3), DP_ADSB2F(3),
DP_SHIFT(3), DP_MULT(3), DP_MULTP(3), DP_NUL(3),
DP_PDFF(3), DP_PDFFR(3), DP_PDFFT(3), DP_PDFFRT(3),
DP_RFG1C0(3), DP_RFG1CC(3), DP_RFG2C0(3), DP_RFG2CC(3)
,

.so man1/alc_bug_report.1

