.\" @(#)Labo.5 1.0 96/10/21 UPMC; Author: LESTER A.
.pl -.4
.TH FCL 5 "Sep 29 1997" "Release 1.01" "CAO\-VLSI Reference Manual"

.SH NAME
.TP 10
FCL
\- Transistor net-list pattern-matching library

.so man1/alc_origin.1

.SH DESCRIPTION
A static library which allows the transistor net-list disassembler YAGLE to deal
with unusual gate structures, for example complex latches or analog circuit blocks
such as differential amplifiers. In order to accomplish this, the user must provide
a set of transistor net-lists, annotated with a number of predefined types,
together with the corresponding behavioural descriptions.

.SH USAGE
YAGLE calls the FCL library if the '-fcl' option is specified. The transistor
net-lists (in extended spice format), and the behavioural descriptions (in ALLIANCE
vbe format) should be placed in a dedicated directory, whose access path is
specified by an environment variable. The list of net-lists to be identified is
specified in a special library file located in the same directory, whose name is
specified in an additional environment variable.

.SH NET-LIST FORMAT
The format for the transistor net-list is a standard flat spice SUBCKT contained
in a file with the '.spi' extension. However, a number of special extensions are
recognised. These are accomodated as spice comments, lines commencing with an
asterisk. The asterisk is followed by a space and one of the following directives,
together with parameters (non case-sensitive) :-
.br
.TP 7
.B NETTYPE <index> <typemask>
Associates the types indicated in <typemask> to any signal in the main circuit
corresponding to the signal in the searched for net-list identified by <index>.
Predefined tyes are :-
.TP 20
     NET_LATCH
Signal corresponds to a latch memory-point.
.TP 20
     NET_FLIPFLOP
Signal corresponds to a flip-flop memory-point.
.TP 20
     NET_MASTER
Signal corresponds to the master memory-point of a flip-flop.
.TP 20
     NET_SLAVE
Signal corresponds to the slave memory-point of a flip-flop.
.TP 20
     NET_MEMSYM
Signal corresponds to one side of a symmetric memory.
.TP 20
     NET_RS
Signal corresponds to one side of an RS bistable.
.TP 20
     NET_BLOCKER
No branch of a cone (see man yagle) can go through the signal.
.TP 20
     NET_STOP
Cannot exploit logic beyond this point for functional analysis in YAGLE.
.TP 7
.B TRANSTYPE <name> <typemask>
Associates the types indicated in <typemask> to any transistor in the main circuit
corresponding to the transistor in the searched for net-list identified by <name>.
Predfefined tyes are :-
.TP 20
     TRANS_BLEEDER
Transistor corresponds to a bleeder.
.TP 20
     TRANS_FEEDBACK
Transistor corresponds to a feedback transistor of a memory-point.
.TP 20
     TRANS_COMMAND
Transistor corresponds to a command transistor of a memory-point, i.e driven by command signal.
.TP 20
     TRANS_NOT_FUNCTIONAL
Transistor should be ignored when calculating gate functionality.
.TP 20
     TRANS_BLOCKER
No branch of a cone (see man yagle) can contain this transistor unless it is the first transistor of the branch.
.TP 20
     TRANS_UNUSED
No branch of a cone (see man yagle) can contain this transistor.
.SH
The <typemask> parameter is made up of a list of one or more of the predefined types, 
separated by the vertical bar '|' character. 
.SH BEHAVIOUR FORMAT
The behavioural description is specified in ALLIANCE '.vbe' format (see man vbe).
A behavioural file must be provided for each net-list, however the description can
be either a complete bahavioural description or specify only the external interface.
In both cases the type must be indicated in the library file.

.SH LIBRARY FILE
This file is a simple text file containing the list of net-lists to be identified.
Each line of the file a single name followed by a space and a character ('A' or 'P')
indicating the type of the behavioural description (complete or interface only).
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP 7
.B FCL_LIB_PATH
Indicates the access path to the directory containing the user-defined cell
library used if the
.B \-fcl
option is set. The default is a subdirectory
.B /cells
in
.B MBK_WORK_LIB
.TP 7
.B FCL_LIB_NAME
The name of the file (located in
.B FCL_LIB_PATH
) containing the list of cells in the user-defined cell library used if the
.B \-fcl
option is set. The default is
.B LIBRARY.

.so man1/alc_bug_rprt.1

.SH SEE ALSO
.br
yagle(1)


