.\"   $Id: tpl.5,v 1.1 1999/05/31 17:30:28 alliance Exp $
.\" @(#)tpl.5 1.0 Oct 05 1994 UPMC; Author: FLORENT O.
.TH TPL 5 "October 1, 1997" "ASIM/LIP6" "CAO\-VLSI Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBtpl\fP \- LV500 Template description format. 

.so man1/alc_origin.1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The TPL format is used by \fBpatest\fP with PAT format to produce a MSA file 
readable by the LV500 tester.
It provides two types of informations:
.RS
.PP
\- Timing characteristics of the pattern file.
.br
\- Wiring description of the chip.
.RE 

.SH THE FORMAT
.SS Timing characteristics

First, \fBclock\fP signal must be declared using a declaration of the form:
.RS

\fICLOCK\fP input_output_name [\fIformat\fP] ;
.RE

where \fIformat\fP is either \fIR0\fP (default value) or \fIR1\fP. 
R0 represents an active HIGH signal, and R1 an active LOW signal.
There can be severals clock signals.

Then each combination of the "clock" signals in the pattern file must be
associated with 5 timing indications in nano\-seconds.
The order in wich this 5 timing indications are described is indicated 
in a line of the form:

\fIPARAM CYCLE DELAY WIDTH FORCE COMPARE\fP ; 

This line if followed by the timing indications associated to each 
combination of the "clock" signals :

\fIPHASE\fP "<phase_description>" time1 time2 time3 time4 time5 ;

The signification of each timing indication is :

.TP 10
\fBCYCLE\fP
The pattern length.
.TP 10
\fBDELAY\fP
The time when "clock" signals rise (or fall) from the beginning of the pattern.
.TP 10
\fBWIDTH\fP
The length of the high (or low) state of "clock" signals.
.TP 10
\fBFORCE\fP
The time when inputs signals change their values from the beginning of the pattern.
.TP 10
\fBCOMPARE\fP
The time when outputs are checked from the beginning of the pattern.

.SS Wiring description

Each logical connector of the chip must be associated with its physical
sector and channel on the tester using :

\fIPIN\fP <input_output_name> <sector>.<channel> ;

All the logical connector must be listed here. The list is end whith a
\fB"end ;"\fP statement.

.SH EXAMPLE

.nf

## My circuit is a latch design, with two clocks
## active high: the master clock and the slave clock
CLOCK	ckm		R0;
CLOCK	cks		R0;

## In my pattern file, I cannot find a combination 
## of ckm/cks different from the two following one :
## '10' : loading master latches
## '01' : loading slave  latches
PARAM          CYCLE   DELAY   WIDTH  FORCE   COMPARE ;
PHASE   '10'   200     50      100    10      160     ;
PHASE   '01'   200     40       50    10      160     ;

## my chip is a 7 pin chip.
PIN   ckm   0.0 ;
PIN   cks   0.a ;
PIN   in1   0.f ;
PIN   in2   1.1 ;
PIN   out   0.b ;
PIN   vdd   3.0 ;
PIN   vss   0.c ;
end ;
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
patest(1), pat(5)


.so man1/alc_bug_report.1

