.\" @(#)ttv.5 1.00  Oct 6 1995 UPMC; Marie-Minerve LOUERAT
.TH TTV 5 "October 1, 1997" "ASIM/LIP6" "cao\-vlsi reference manual"

.SH NAME
.PP
\fBttv\fP \- The timing analyzer \fBtas\fP report : 'general perfmodule' format.

.so man1/alc_origin.1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP

The timing analyzer \fBtas\fP reports its results in
a file, named 'perfmodule'. There are two kind of  perfmodules:
the 'intermediate' (or 'detailed")  and the 'general'. The first one has a \fBht\fPv
extension  and is  obtained if  the \fB-t\fP  option is used. It
contains gate delays  between two  signals. The second one 
has the \fBttv\fP  extension and  contains  all critical paths
between  two  reference  points.  The perfmodule has several
articles.


.TP 20
\fBTerminals\fP
Terminals are reported on the \fBX\fP article.

.RS 5
.PP
X \fIdirection name capacitance\fP ;
.RE

.PP
The 'terminal' direction can be:

.RS 5
.TP 5 
\fII\fP
for an input terminal

.TP 5
\fIT\fP 
for a transceiver terminal

.TP 5
\fIB\fP 
for a bidirectional terminal

.TP 5
\fIO\fP
for an output terminal

.TP 5
\fIZ\fP
for a high-impedance terminal

.TP 5
\fIU\fP 
for an unknown direction
.RE

.TP 20
\fBLatches\fP
Latches are reported on the \fBL S\fP article.

.RS 5
.PP
L S \fIname ( cmd1 cmd2 ... )\fP ;
.RE

.TP 20
\fBFlipflop\fP
Flipflop are reported on the \fBL F\fP article.

.RS 5
.PP
L F \fIname ( cmd1 cmd2 ... )\fP ;
.RE

.PP
A latch or a flipflop may have several commands. All of them  belong to
the \fBL S\fP or \fBL F\fP article .

.TP 20
\fBPrecharged signals\fP
Precharged signals are reported on the \fBP\fP article.

.RS 5
.PP
P \fIname\fP ;
.RE

.TP 20
\fBTransitions\fP
Transitions between signals are reported to the \fBT\fP
article.

.RS 5
.PP
T \fItype begin end ( (control (input_commutation output_commutation
delay resistance slope)))\fP ;
.RE

.PP
Each 'transition' has one of the following type:

.RS 5
.TP 5
\fIE\fP 
if  the path output is a precharged  signal  and
the transition concerns an evaluation phase.

.TP 5
\fIP\fP 
if the path output is a  precharged  signal  and
the transition concerns an precharged phase.

.TP 5
\fIX\fP 
if the output is not a precharged signal.
.RE

.PP
Each 'commutation' has one of the following type:

.RS 5
.TP 5
\fIU\fP 
for a rising edge.

.TP 5
\fID\fP
for a falling edge.

.TP 5
\fIZ\fP
for a  commutation when  the output  is a  
precharged signal.
.RE

.PP
If the end of path is a register, the 'control' field 
indicates which signal controls the transition.  And  if the end
of path  is  a  terminal, in  each  transition,  the  output
resistance  and  the output  slope  will be  reported.  This
allows a hierarchical analysis. In the other case, only  the
delay appears in the transition line.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
     tas(1),dtv(5)


.so man1/alc_bug_report.1

