.\"   $Id: addauth2elem.3,v 1.1 1999/05/31 17:30:17 alliance Exp $
.\" @(#)addauth2elem.2 2.7 96/07/02 ; Labo masi cao-vlsi; Author : Jacomme Ludovic
.TH ADDAUTH2ELEM 3 "October 1, 1997" "ASIM/LIP6" "AUT FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
addauth2elem \- adds an element in the hash table. 
.so man1/alc_origin.1
.SH SYNOPSYS
.nf
.if n \{\
.ft B \}
.if t \{\
.ft CR \}
#include "aut101.h"
auth2elem \(**addauth2elem( HashTable, Key1, Key2, Value )
  auth2table \(**HashTable;
  char      \(**Key1;
  char      \(**Key2;
  long       Value;
.ft R
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 20
\fIHashTable\fP
Pointer to the hash table where to add an element in.
.TP
\fIKey1\fP
The first hash element key.
.TP
\fIKey2\fP
The second hash element key.
.TP
\fIValue\fP
The value associated to the two keys \fIKey1\fP and \fIKey2\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBaddauth2elem\fP adds a new element in the hash table if there is not
already an element associated to the two keys \fIKey1\fP and \fIKey2\fP.
Otherwise \fBaddauth2elem\fP changes the value of the existing one.
\fBaddauth2elem\fP stretches the hash table \fIHashTable\fP if its size
seems to be too small.
.br
.SH RETURN VALUE
\fBaddauth2elem\fP returns a pointer to the element associated to the two keys.
.SH ERRORS
.if n \{\
.ft B \}
.if t \{\
.ft CR \}
"auth2ash: hash key 0 error !"
.ft R
.RS
The two keys \fIKey1\fP and \fIKey2\fP must be valid pointers.
.SH EXAMPLE
.ta 3n 6n 9n 12n 15n 18n 21n
.nf
.if n \{\
.ft B \}
.if t \{\
.ft CR \}
#include "aut101.h"
   auth2table \(**HashTable;
   void add_in_dictionary( Name1, Name2 )
     \(** Name1;
     \(** Name2;
   {
     addauth2elem( HashTable, 
                   namealloc( Name1 ),
                   namealloc( Name2 ), 0 );
   }
   ...
   HashTable = createauth2table( 1000 );
   add_in_dictionary( "hello", "world"  );
   ...
   destroyauth2table( HashTable );
.ft R
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR aut (1)
.BR destroyauth2table(3),
.BR resetauth2table(3),
.BR createauth2table(3),
.BR searchauth2elem(3),
.BR delauth2elem(3).


.so man1/alc_bug_report.1

