.\"   $Id: AFFECT.3,v 1.1 1999/05/31 17:30:14 alliance Exp $
.\" @(#)AFFECT.3 2.30 Sep 08 1993 UPMC ; VUONG H.N. & PITON D.
.TH AFFECT 3 "October 1, 1997" "ASIM/LIP6" "GENPAT functions"

.SH NAME
.PP
\fBAFFECT\fP, GENPAT Package

.so man1/alc_origin.1
.SH SYNOPSYS
.PP
.nf
AFFECT ("pattern_nb", "ident", "value");
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.TP 10
\fIpattern_nb\fP
pattern number which may be either : integer (absolute pattern number) or
\+ integer (relative pattern number, the reference pattern number is defined
by the last AFFECT or INIT). 
.TP 10
\fIident\fP
Either the name of a bused signal or a scalar. Vectors must be referenced with
their names only, or bit per bit. For example, if b(3 downto 0) exists, you
can affect "b", "b(3)" or "b 3". 
.TP 10
\fIvalue\fP
The value associated with the signal which may be either a based number
(ex. binary: 0b011 ,hexa:  0x3F, octal: 0o56) or a decimal number. Unknown
value (value where a '*' appears), can be used when dealing with an output,
a signal, a register or an input/output when this last one is to be tested. 
Star ('*') can appears everywhere in a BASED number, but the result will be a
"full star" value. (For example, "0B0*10" and "0B***" would give the same
result.) AFFECT is doing automatically the transformation of the value into
a "forced" value or a "tested" value except for the bidirectional connectors
affectation. When and bidirectional is to be tested, a '?' character must be
added before the value (example : "?0x45f*" instead of "0x45f*").

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
"Affect" a value to a signal. This value will be apllied to the signal, at
the specified pattern number, until the end of the simulation or until a new
value is affected to the signal. Beware : Inputs have to be affected at the
first pattern. By default, signals (except Inputs) are affected with a "full
star" value at the first pattern.

.PP
This fonction also set the current pattern number.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.nf
AFFECT ("0", "b", "0B1");
.fi

.PP
At pattern 0 the signal b(3 downto 0) receives the value "0001". This value
will be kept until the last pattern if no more affectation is made.

.nf
AFFECT ("0", "b", "0B0");
AFFECT ("2", "b", "0B1");
result :            b
        pat_0 :.....0...;
        pat_1 :.....0...;
        pat_2 :.....1...;
  
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
genpat(1), pat(5)


.so man1/alc_bug_report.1

