.\"   $Id: array.3,v 1.1 1999/05/31 17:30:17 alliance Exp $
.\" @(#)ARRAY.2 1.9  UPMC ; VUONG H.N.
.TH ARRAY 3 "October 1, 1997" "ASIM/LIP6" "GENPAT functions"

.SH NAME
.PP
\fBarray\fP, GENPAT Package

.so man1/alc_origin.1
.SH SYNOPSYS
.PP
.nf
array("ident","ident", ... ,":nb_space","format","type","ident_group",0);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.TP 10
\fIident\fP
name of a bused connector (output only), a bused signal or a bused
register, or for a scalar : name (followed with a number if part of a
bused signal) of a connector, a signal or a register.The number of character is limited to 20
.TP 10
\fInb_space\fP
Specify the number of blank space between each group of value. 0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9 or nothing.
.TP 10
\fIformat\fP
Specify the format that will be used to represent the value associated to
the connectors. X for Hexadecimal, O for Octal and B for Binary.
.TP 10
\fItype\fP
Specify the type of the connectors. R for Register, S for Signal, O for Output.
.TP 10
\fIident_group\fP
Specify the array's name, the first ident is associated with the lsb of the
array.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Describes a set of vectors of the same format and type. The vectors
may be either PORT, REGISTER or SIGNAL, ( for a PORT only the mode OUT is
allowed). The vectors may have been yet declared.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.nf
array("regt","reg 9",":2","B","R","Y",0);
describes : regt, reg 9.
format : Binary.
type   : Register.
each group is separated of the others with 2 blank spaces.
identifier : Y
if regt is not yet declared or declared of size 1 : 
   regt is associated with Y 0, reg 9 is associated with Y 1.
if regt is yet declared of size n : 
   regt is associated with Y 0 TO n, reg is associated with Y n+1.
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
port(3), signal(3), register(3), genpat(1), pat(5)


.so man1/alc_bug_report.1

