.\"   $Id: berin.3,v 1.1 1999/05/31 17:30:19 alliance Exp $
.\" @(#)berin.2 108 Feb 15 1995 UPMC; Pirouz BAZARGAN SABET
.TH BERIN 3 "October 1, 1997" "ASIM/LIP6" "cao\-vlsi reference manual"

.so man1/alc_origin.1
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBberin\fP - BEH data structure

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fIberin\fP is a data structure used in \fBBEH\fP to represent a one\-bit
input signal. For an array, each element is represented by a single structure.
Is considered as input signal either an input port of circuit (a port is said
input when its value is readable inside the circuit) or, an internal register.
An internal signal can also be considered as an input. \fIberin\fP has been
designed to be used in a simply chained list.

.PP
A \fIberin\fP structure is composed of the following fields.

.TP 25
\fI(char *) NAME\fP
the object\'s name. For an array\'s element, the name is the array\'s identifier
added to the element\'s index seperated by a \' \' (blank space).
This string is supposed been produced by \fBnamealloc()\fP
.TP 25
\fI(struct chain *) OUT_REF\fP
list of simple out ports that depend on the current input.
.TP 25
\fI(struct chain *) BUS_REF\fP
list of bussed out ports that depend on the current input.
.TP 25
\fI(struct chain *) AUX_REF\fP
list of simple internal signals that depend on the current input.
.TP 25
\fI(struct chain *) BUX_REF\fP
list of bussed internal signals that depend on the current input.
.TP 25
\fI(struct chain *) REG_REF\fP
list of internal registers that depend on the current input.
.TP 25
\fI(struct chain *) MSG_REF\fP
list of internal assert statements that depend on the current input.
.TP 25
\fI(struct chain *) DLY_REF\fP
list of delayed internal signals that depend on the current input.
.TP 25
\fI(struct berin *) NEXT\fP
next berin

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
beh(3), beh_addberin(3), beh_delberin(3), beh_freberin(3),
beh_rmvberin(3), namealloc(3)


.so man1/alc_bug_report.1

