.\"   $Id: delauth2elem.3,v 1.1 1999/05/31 17:30:20 alliance Exp $
.\" @(#)delauth2elem.2 2.7 96/07/02 ; Labo masi cao-vlsi; Author : Jacomme Ludovic
.TH DELAUTH2ELEM 3 "October 1, 1997" "ASIM/LIP6" "AUT FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
delauth2elem \- deletes an element in the hash table.
.so man1/alc_origin.1
.SH SYNOPSYS
.nf
.if n \{\
.ft B \}
.if t \{\
.ft CR \}
#include "aut101.h"
int delauth2elem( HashTable, Key1, Key2 )
  auth2table \(**HashTable;
  char      \(**Key1;
  char      \(**Key2;
.ft R
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 20
\fIHashTable\fP
Pointer to the hash table where to delete an element.
.TP
\fIKey1\fP
The first hash element key.
.TP
\fIKey2\fP
The second hash element key.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBdelauth2elem\fP deletes the element associated to the tow keys \fIKey1\fP
and \fIKey2\fP in the hash table.
.br
.SH RETURN VALUE
if the element can be found \fBdelauth2elem\fP returns 1 and 0 otherwise.
.SH ERRORS
.if n \{\
.ft B \}
.if t \{\
.ft CR \}
"auth2ash: hash key 0 error !"
.ft R
.RS
The two keys \fIKey1\fP and \fIKey2\fP must be valid pointers.
.SH EXAMPLE
.ta 3n 6n 9n 12n 15n 18n 21n
.nf
.if n \{\
.ft B \}
.if t \{\
.ft CR \}
#include "aut101.h"
   auth2table \(**HashTable;
   void add_dictionary( Name1, Name2 )
     \(** Name1;
     \(** Name2;
   {
     addauth2elem( HashTable,
                   namealloc( Name1 ),
                   namealloc( Name2 ), 0 );
   }
   void del_dictionary( Name1, Name2 )
     \(** Name1;
     \(** Name2;
   {
     delauth2elem( HashTable,
                   namealloc( Name1 ),
                   namealloc( Name2 ) );
   }
   ...
   HashTable = createauth2table( 1000 );
   add_dictionary( "hello", "world" );
   ...
   del_dictionary( "hello", "world" );
   destroyauth2table( HashTable );
.ft R
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR aut (1)
.BR destroyauth2table(3),
.BR resetauth2table(3),
.BR createauth2table(3),
.BR searchauth2elem(3),
.BR addauth2elem(3).


.so man1/alc_bug_report.1

