.\"   $Id: DP_DEFLOFIG.3,v 1.1 1999/05/31 17:30:15 alliance Exp $
.TH DP_DEFLOFIG 3 "October 1, 1997" "ASIM/LIP6" "FITPATH Macro-Functions"
.so man1/alc_origin.1
.SH NAME
\fBDP_DEFLOFIG\fP - Open a new Data-Path figure/model.
.SH SYNOPSYS
.ft CR
.nf
#include  <fpgen.h>

void  DP_DEFLOFIG( 
    char *aFigName ,  /* Figure/model name                 */
    long  aMaxWidth,  /* Maximal operator bus wide         */
    long  aMSB0    ); /* Select the type of bus indexation */
.fi
.ft R
.SH ARGUMENTS
.in +8m
.ta +8m
.ti -8m
\fIaFiglName\fP	Give the data-path model name.

.ti -8m
\fIaMaxWidth\fP	Set the maximal width of the operators bus. This is also
the width used when a \fImacro-function\fP is called width the argument
\fBDEFAULT_WIDTH\fP as the \fIWidth\fP parameter.

.ti -8m
\fIaMSB0\fP	Tells how the buses will be indexed. Two values are allowed :
.br
.ta +20nR +1n +2n
-	\fBLSB_INDEX_ZERO\fP	:	The least significant bit have the index of
\fIzero\fP.
.br
			(so bus are noted \fB[\fIMaxWidth\fB-1:0]\fR)
.br
-	\fBMSB_INDEX_ZERO\fP	:	The most significant bit have the index of
\fIzero\fP.
.br
			(so bus are noted \fB[0:\fIMaxWidth\fB-1]\fR)
.br
Notice that, in the layout, the \fBLSB\fP is always on the \fIslice\fP
numdered \fIzero\fP.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.ta  4n
	\fBDP_DEFLOFIG\fP define the current working data-path. The call to this
function must be done before to use any other \fBfpgen\fP macro-function.
It doesn't look on the disk for the figure \fIModelName\fP, so be careful
to not overwrite an existing file while saving later on.
.ta 4m +4n
.SH EXAMPLE
.ft CR
.nf
#include  <genlib.h>
#include  <fpgen.h>
 
 
main()
{
    /* Create a new data-path figure names "my_sweet_data_path". */
    DP_DEFLOFIG("my_sweet_data_path", 32, LSB_INDEX_ZERO);

    /* Data-path netlist description, using macro-functions. */

    /* Save the model on disk. */
    DP_SAVLOFIG();
}
.fi
.ft R
.bp
.SH SEE ALSO
.ft B
fpgen(1), dpr(1), genlib(1), mbk(1),
DP_DEFLOFIG(3), DP_SAVLOFIG(3), DP_LOCON(3), DP_IMPORT(3),
DP_INV(3), DP_BUSE(3), DP_AND2(3), DP_NAND2(3), DP_AND3(3), DP_NAND3(3),
DP_OR2(3), DP_NOR2(3), DP_OR3(3), DP_NOR3(3), DP_XOR2(3), DP_XNOR2(3),
DP_NAND2MASK(3), DP_NOR2MASK(3), DP_XNOR2MASK(3), DP_CONST(3),
DP_NMUX2CS(3), DP_MUX2CS(3), DP_MUX3CS(3), DP_MUX4CS(3), DP_MUX5CS(3),
DP_BUSE(3), DP_NBUSE(3), DP_ADD2F(3), DP_ADSB2F(3),
DP_SHIFT(3), DP_MULT(3), DP_MULTP(3), DP_NUL(3),
DP_PDFF(3), DP_PDFFR(3), DP_PDFFT(3), DP_PDFFRT(3),
DP_RFG1C0(3), DP_RFG1CC(3), DP_RFG2C0(3), DP_RFG2CC(3)
,


.so man1/alc_bug_report.1

