.\"   $Id: DP_IMPORT.3,v 1.1 1999/05/31 17:30:15 alliance Exp $
.TH DP_IMPORT 3 "October 1, 1997" "ASIM/LIP6" "FITPATH Macro-Functions"
.so man1/alc_origin.1
.SH NAME
\fBDP_IMPORT\fP - Add a new data-path component inside the current data-path.
.SH SYNOPSYS
.ft CR
.nf
#include  <fpgen.h>

void  DP_IMPORT( 
    char *ModelName,  /* Figure/model name.                */
    char  *InstName,  /* Instance name.                    */
    char  *SigList ,  /* List of signals names.            */
                 EOL);
.fi
.ft R
.SH ARGUMENTS
.in +8m
.ta +8m
.ti -8m
\fIModelName\fP	The data-path object model name.

.ti -8m
\fIInstName\fP	Name to be given to the new instance.

.ti -8m
\fISigList\fP	List of signals to be linked to the connectors of the
instance. Notice that power supply signals "\fI*vdd*\fP" and "\fI*vss*\fP"
must be ommited in the above list. They are detected in the model connector
list and automatically inserted at the right place in the signal list.
.in -8m
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ta  4n
	The \fBDP_IMPORT\fP function allow the designer to include in the
current data-path various customized components. At this time, only three
type are recognized. The two first are \fIheterogeneous operators\fP and
\fIsub data-paths\fP, they consist in netlists that must respect the rules
given for the place and route tool \fBdpr\fP. In the preceeding cases \fBDP_IMPORT\fP
checks for the netlist validity. For more informations about the data-path 
netlist constraints, see \fBdpr\fP. The last case is \fIcustom blocs\fP,
such blocs are detected when a layout associated with the model is found on the
disk. For these the \fBDP_IMPORT\fP function run blindly,
assuming that the layout is correct regarding the \fBbit-slice\fP requirements.
.SH EXAMPLE
.ft CR
.nf
#include <genlib.h>
#include  <fpgen.h>
 
DP_IMPORT("custom_model", "custom_instance0", "input_i0[31:0]",
                                              "input_i1[31:0]",
                                              "output_o[31:0]", EOL);
.fi
.ft R
.SH SEE ALSO
.ft B
fpgen(1), dpr(1), genlib(1), mbk(1),
DP_DEFLOFIG(3), DP_SAVLOFIG(3), DP_LOCON(3), DP_IMPORT(3),
DP_INV(3), DP_BUSE(3), DP_AND2(3), DP_NAND2(3), DP_AND3(3), DP_NAND3(3),
DP_OR2(3), DP_NOR2(3), DP_OR3(3), DP_NOR3(3), DP_XOR2(3), DP_XNOR2(3),
DP_NAND2MASK(3), DP_NOR2MASK(3), DP_XNOR2MASK(3), DP_CONST(3),
DP_NMUX2CS(3), DP_MUX2CS(3), DP_MUX3CS(3), DP_MUX4CS(3), DP_MUX5CS(3),
DP_BUSE(3), DP_NBUSE(3), DP_ADD2F(3), DP_ADSB2F(3),
DP_SHIFT(3), DP_MULT(3), DP_MULTP(3), DP_NUL(3),
DP_PDFF(3), DP_PDFFR(3), DP_PDFFT(3), DP_PDFFRT(3),
DP_RFG1C0(3), DP_RFG1CC(3), DP_RFG2C0(3), DP_RFG2CC(3)
,


.so man1/alc_bug_report.1

