.\"   $Id: DP_LOCON.3,v 1.1 1999/05/31 17:30:15 alliance Exp $
.TH DP_LOCON 3 "October 1, 1997" "ASIM/LIP6" "FITPATH Macro-Functions"
.so man1/alc_origin.1
.SH NAME
\fBDP_LOCON\fP -  Logical connector
.SH SYNOPSYS
.ft CR
.nf
#include <genlib.h>
#include <fpgen.h>

void DP_LOCON(
     char *aCon,  /*       Connector name       */
     char  aDir,  /* Direction of the connector */
     char *aSig); /*    Internal signal name    */
.ft R
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.in +14n
.ta +14n
.ti -14n
\fIaCon\fP	Name of the connector to be created in the current figure.
.br

.ti -14n
\fIaDir\fP	Indicates the connector behavior regarding signal propagation.
The available values are listed below, they are the same as in the
\fBgenlib(1)\fP description language :
.br
.ta +12nR +1n +2n
-	\fBIN\fP	:	Input.
.br
-	\fBOUT\fP	:	Output.
.br
-	\fBINOUT\fP	:	Input/output.
.br
-	\fBUNKNOW\fP	:	If one doesn't know what it is.
.br
-	\fBTRISTATE\fP	:	High impedance output.
.br
-	\fBTRANSV\fP	:	Transceiver, that means \fBTRISTATE\fP input plus
output.
.br

.ta +14n
.ti -14n
\fIaSig\fP	Name of the internal signal with which the connector is
linked. For better understanding this name could by the same as given for
\fIaCon\fP.
.br

.ta +14n
.in -14n
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ta +4n
	\fBDP_LOCON\fP add a logical connector \fIaCon\fP to the interface of
the actual working figure. This connector is logicaly linked to the signal
\fIaSig\fP.
.br
	All the \fBDP_LOCON\fP function calls must immediatly follow the
\fBDP_DEFLOFIG\fP function call.
.bp
.SH EXAMPLE
.ft CR
.nf
#include  <genlib.h>
#include  <fpgen.h>
 
 
main()
{
    /* Create a new data-path figure names "my_sweet_data_path". */
    DP_DEFLOFIG("my_sweet_data_path", 32, LSB_INDEX_ZERO);

    /* Data-path connectors declaration. */
    DP_LOCON("pin_ctrl1"      , IN   , "pin_ctrl1"      );
    DP_LOCON("bus_data1[31:0]", IN   , "bus_data1[31:0]");
    DP_LOCON("pin_data2[31]"  ,   OUT, "pin_data2[31]"  );

    DP_LOCON(BUS("bus_data3",31,0), IN   ,BUS("bus_data2",31,0));
	DP_LOCON(ELM("pin_data4",31  )    OUT,ELM("pin_data4",31  ));

    /* Data-path netlist description, using macro-functions. */

    /* Save the model on disk. */
    DP_SAVLOFIG();
}
.fi
.ft R
.SH SEE ALSO
.ft B
fpgen(1), dpr(1), genlib(1), mbk(1),
DP_DEFLOFIG(3), DP_SAVLOFIG(3), DP_LOCON(3), DP_IMPORT(3),
DP_INV(3), DP_BUSE(3), DP_AND2(3), DP_NAND2(3), DP_AND3(3), DP_NAND3(3),
DP_OR2(3), DP_NOR2(3), DP_OR3(3), DP_NOR3(3), DP_XOR2(3), DP_XNOR2(3),
DP_NAND2MASK(3), DP_NOR2MASK(3), DP_XNOR2MASK(3), DP_CONST(3),
DP_NMUX2CS(3), DP_MUX2CS(3), DP_MUX3CS(3), DP_MUX4CS(3), DP_MUX5CS(3),
DP_BUSE(3), DP_NBUSE(3), DP_ADD2F(3), DP_ADSB2F(3),
DP_SHIFT(3), DP_MULT(3), DP_MULTP(3), DP_NUL(3),
DP_PDFF(3), DP_PDFFR(3), DP_PDFFT(3), DP_PDFFRT(3),
DP_RFG1C0(3), DP_RFG1CC(3), DP_RFG2C0(3), DP_RFG2CC(3)
,


.so man1/alc_bug_report.1

