.\"   $Id: DP_TRACE.3,v 1.1 1999/05/31 17:30:15 alliance Exp $
.TH DP_TRACE 3 "October 1, 1997" "ASIM/LIP6" "FITPATH Macro-Functions"
.so man1/alc_origin.1
.SH NAME
\fBDP_TRACE\fP - Eanble/disable trace mode.
.SH SYNOPSYS
.ft CR
.nf
#include  <fpgen.h>

void  DP_TRACE(
    long  aMode );   /*            Mode value.            */
.fi
.ft R
.SH ARGUMENTS
.in +8m
.ta +8m
.ti -8m
\fIaMode\fP	Set the trace mode, two values are allowed :
.br
.ta +20nR +1n +2n
-	\fBTRACE_ON\fP	:	Enable trace mode.
.br
.br
-	\fBTRACE_OFF\fP	:	Disable trace mode.
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ta 4m +4n +10nR +2n +2n
	\fBDP_TRACE\fP allow the designer to see on the standart output the
execution of his \fBfpgen(1)\fP program. With \fBDP_TRACE\fP you can see
the order of the function calls, which arguments are given to these
functions and how instances are internally wired in the netlist.
With \fBDP_TRACE\fP programs can be partially or completly traced.
.br
	A \fBDP_TRACE\fP call can take place at any location in a C source file,
even before the first \fPDP_DEFLOFIG(3)\fP.
.br
.bp
.SH EXAMPLE
.ft CR
.nf
#include  <genlib.h>
#include  <fpgen.h>
 
 
main()
{
  /* Create a new data-path figure named "my_sweet_data_path". */
  DP_DEFLOFIG( "my_sweet_data_path", 32, LSB_INDEX_ZERO );

  /* Data-path netlist description, using macro-functions.
   * The following fpgen functions are not traced.
   */
  /* ... */

  /* Trace mode enabled, fpgen functions called after this point
   * will be traced.
   */
  DP_TRACE( TRACE_ON );

  /* ... */

  /* Trace mode desabled. */
  DP_TRACE( TRACE_OFF );

  /* ... */

  /* Save the model on disk. */
  DP_SAVLOFIG();
}
.fi
.ft R
.SH SEE ALSO
.ft B
fpgen(1), dpr(1), genlib(1), mbk(1),
DP_DEFLOFIG(3), DP_SAVLOFIG(3), DP_LOCON(3), DP_IMPORT(3),
DP_INV(3), DP_BUSE(3), DP_AND2(3), DP_NAND2(3), DP_AND3(3), DP_NAND3(3),
DP_OR2(3), DP_NOR2(3), DP_OR3(3), DP_NOR3(3), DP_XOR2(3), DP_XNOR2(3),
DP_NAND2MASK(3), DP_NOR2MASK(3), DP_XNOR2MASK(3), DP_CONST(3),
DP_NMUX2CS(3), DP_MUX2CS(3), DP_MUX3CS(3), DP_MUX4CS(3), DP_MUX5CS(3),
DP_BUSE(3), DP_NBUSE(3), DP_ADD2F(3), DP_ADSB2F(3),
DP_SHIFT(3), DP_MULT(3), DP_MULTP(3), DP_NUL(3),
DP_PDFF(3), DP_PDFFR(3), DP_PDFFT(3), DP_PDFFRT(3),
DP_RFG1C0(3), DP_RFG1CC(3), DP_RFG2C0(3), DP_RFG2CC(3)
,


.so man1/alc_bug_report.1

