.\"   $Id: funbiabl.3,v 1.1 1999/05/31 17:30:21 alliance Exp $
.\" @(#)biabl.2 108 Feb 15 1995 UPMC ; Pirouz BAZARGAN SABET
.TH FUNBIABL 3 "October 1, 1997" "ASIM/LIP6" "BEH functions"

.so man1/alc_origin.1
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBbeh_addbiabl , beh_delbiabl , beh_frebiabl\fP

.SH SYNOPSYS
.PP
.nf
struct biabl *beh_addbiabl (list, label, cond, value)
struct biabl *list;
char *label;
struct chain *cond;
struct chain *value;

struct biabl *beh_delbiabl (list, pnt, mode)
struct biabl *list;
struct biabl *pnt;
char mode;

void beh_frebiabl (list)
struct biabl *list;
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.TP 10
\fIlist\fP
pointer of a list of biabl structures
.TP 10
\fIlabel\fP
driver's label
.TP 10
\fIcond\fP
abl representing the expression of the connection condition of the driver
.TP 10
\fIvalue\fP
abl representing the expression of the value emitted by the driver
.TP 10
\fIpnt\fP
pointer of the biabl structure to be removed from the list
.TP 10
\fImode\fP
recursive mode (Y or N)

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
A biabl is a data structure representing a one\-bit deconnectable VHDL driver.

.PP
\fBbeh_addbiabl()\fP adds a biabl structure at the top of a list of biabl
structures. \fIcond\fP is a pointer on the abl representing the condition that
makes the driver active. \fIvalue\fP is the abl of the expression of the value
produced by the driver. \fIlabel\fP is the identification of the driver. The
label registred in the biabl structure is produced by \fBnamealloc()\fP.
The function returns the pointer of the new list.
No checks are made by this function.

.PP
\fBbeh_delbiabl()\fP deletes a biabl structure (pointed by \fIpnt\fP)
from a list of biabl structures. The function returns the pointer of the new
list. No action is made if the structure pointed by \fIpnt\fP doesn't belong
to the list.

.PP
\fBbeh_frebiabl()\fP deletes a list of biabl structures (pointed by
\fIlist\fP). No action is made if \fIlist\fP is an empty list (NULL pointer).
No checks are made by this function.
If \fImode\fP is set to 'Y' all objects (abl) pointed by the biabl will also
be deleted. If \fImode\fP is set to 'N' and there is any object (abl) pointed
by the structure a warning message is printed on the standard error output.

.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
.nf
#include <beh108.h>

struct biabl *list;

list = beh_addbiabl (list, "write_reg", NULL, NULL);
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
beh(3), biabl(3)


.so man1/alc_bug_report.1

