.\"   $Id: funbemsg.3,v 1.1 1999/05/31 17:30:21 alliance Exp $
.\" @(#)bemsg.2 108 Feb 15 1995 UPMC ; Pirouz BAZARGAN SABET
.TH FUNBEMSG 3 "October 1, 1997" "ASIM/LIP6" "BEH functions"

.so man1/alc_origin.1
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBbeh_addbemsg , beh_delbemsg , beh_rmvbemsg , beh_frebemsg\fP

.SH SYNOPSYS
.PP
.nf
struct bemsg *beh_addbemsg (list, label, level, message, abl, bdd)
struct bemsg *list;
char *label;
char level;
char *message;
struct chain *abl;
struct node *bdd;

struct bemsg *beh_delbemsg (list, pnt, mode)
struct bemsg *list;
struct bemsg *pnt;
char mode;

struct bemsg *beh_rmvbemsg (list, label, mode)
struct bemsg *list;
char *label;
char mode;

void beh_frebemsg (list)
struct bemsg *list;
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.TP 10
\fIlist\fP
pointer of a list of bemsg structures
.TP 10
\fIlabel\fP
label of the assert instruction
.TP 10
\fIlevel\fP
the severity level of the assert :
.RS
.TP 5
E
for an assert with severity level ERROR
.TP 5
W
for an assert with severity level WARNING
.RE
.TP 10
\fImessage\fP
a string representing the message printed in case of assert violation
.TP 10
\fIabl\fP
the abl representing the expression specified in the assert's condition
.TP 10
\fIbdd\fP
the bdd representing the expression specified in the assert's condition
.TP 10
\fIpnt\fP
pointer of the bemsg structure to be removed from the list
.TP 10
\fImode\fP
recursive mode (Y or N)

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
A bemsg structure represents a VHDL concurrent assert instruction.

.PP
\fBbeh_addbemsg()\fP adds a bemsg structure at the top of a list of bemsg
structures. The label registred in the bemsg structure is produced by
\fBnamealloc()\fP. The function returns the pointer of the new list.
No checks are made by this function.

.PP
\fBbeh_delbemsg()\fP deletes a bemsg structure (pointed by \fIpnt\fP) from a
list of bemsg structures. The function returns the pointer of the new list.
No action is made if the structure pointed by \fIpnt\fP doesn't belong to the
list. If \fImode\fP is set to 'Y' all objects (abl) pointed by the bemsg will
also be deleted. If \fImode\fP is set to 'N' and there is any object (abl)
pointed by the bemsg a warning message is printed on the standard error output.

.PP
\fBbeh_rmvbemsg()\fP deletes a bemsg structure (labeled \fIlabel\fP) from a
list of bemsg structures. \fIlabel\fP is supposed to be produced by
\fBnamealloc()\fP. The function returns the pointer of the new list.
No action is made if no structure labeled \fIlabel\fP has been found in the
list. If \fImode\fP is set to 'Y' all objects (abl) pointed by the bemsg will
also be deleted. If \fImode\fP is set to 'N' and there is any object (abl)
pointed by the bemsg a warning message is printed on the standard error output.

.PP
\fBbeh_frebemsg()\fP deletes a list of bemsg structures (pointed by
\fIlist\fP) and all objects (abl) pointed by any bemsg structure of the list.
No action is made if \fIlist\fP is an empty list (NULL pointer).
No checks are made by this function.

.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
.nf
#include <beh108.h>

struct bemsg *list;
char *label;

label = namealloc ("power_supply_check");
list = beh_addbemsg (list, label, 'E', "conflict on bus", NULL, NULL);
list = beh_rmvbemsg (list, label);
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
beh(3), log(1), bemsg(3), namealloc(3)


.so man1/alc_bug_report.1

