.\"   $Id: funberin.3,v 1.1 1999/05/31 17:30:21 alliance Exp $
.\" @(#)berin.2 108 Feb 15 1995 UPMC ; Pirouz BAZARGAN SABET
.TH FUNBERIN 3 "October 1, 1997" "ASIM/LIP6" "BEH functions"

.so man1/alc_origin.1
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBbeh_addberin , beh_delberin , beh_rmvberin , beh_freberin\fP

.SH SYNOPSYS
.PP
.nf
struct berin *beh_addberin (list, name)
struct berin *list;
char *name;

struct berin *beh_delberin (list, pnt)
struct berin *list;
struct berin *pnt;

struct berin *beh_rmvberin (list, name)
struct berin *list;
char *name;

void beh_freberin (list)
struct berin *list;
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.TP 10
\fIlist\fP
pointer of a list of berin structures
.TP 10
\fIname\fP
name of the port or register to be added to or removed from the list
.TP 10
\fIpnt\fP
pointer of the berin structure to be removed from the list

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
A berin is a data structure representing a one\-bit port or internal register.

.PP
\fBbeh_addberin()\fP adds a berin structure at the top of a list of berin
structures. The name registred in the berin structure is produced by
\fBnamealloc()\fP. The function returns the pointer of the new list.
No checks are made by this function.

.PP
\fBbeh_delberin()\fP deletes a berin structure (pointed by \fIpnt\fP)
from a list of berin structures. The function returns the pointer of the new
list. No action is made if the structure pointed by \fIpnt\fP doesn't belong
to the list.

.PP
\fBbeh_rmvberin()\fP deletes a berin structure (named \fIname\fP) from a list
of berin structures. \fIname\fP is supposed to be produced by \fBnamealloc()\fP.
The function returns the pointer of the new list.
No action is made if no structure named \fIname\fP has been found in the list.

.PP
\fBbeh_freberin()\fP deletes a list of berin structures (pointed by
\fIlist\fP). No action is made if \fIlist\fP is an empty list (NULL pointer).
No checks are made by this function.

.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
.nf
#include <beh108.h>

struct berin *list;
char *name;

name = namealloc ("slave_clock");
list = beh_addberin (list,"master_clock");
list = beh_rmvberin (list,name);
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
beh(3), berin(3), namealloc(3)


.so man1/alc_bug_report.1

