.\"   $Id: funbereg.3,v 1.1 1999/05/31 17:30:21 alliance Exp $
.\" @(#)bereg.2 108 Feb 15 1995 UPMC ; Pirouz BAZARGAN SABET
.TH FUNBEREG 3 "October 1, 1997" "ASIM/LIP6" "BEH functions"

.so man1/alc_origin.1
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBbeh_addbereg , beh_delbereg , beh_rmvbereg , beh_frebereg\fP

.SH SYNOPSYS
.PP
.nf
struct bereg *beh_addbereg (list, name, biabl, bibdd)
struct bereg *list;
char *name;
struct biabl *biabl;
struct binode *bibdd;

struct bereg *beh_delbereg (list, pnt, mode)
struct bereg *list;
struct bereg *pnt;
char mode;

struct bereg *beh_rmvbereg (list, name, mode)
struct bereg *list;
char *name;
char mode;

void beh_frebereg (list)
struct bereg *list;
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.TP 10
\fIlist\fP
pointer of a list of bereg structures
.TP 10
\fIname\fP
name of the internal register to be added to or removed from the list
.TP 10
\fIbiabl\fP
list of biabl representing the expression of drivers setting the value of
the internal register
.TP 10
\fIbibdd\fP
list of bibdd representing the expression of drivers setting the value of
the internal register
.TP 10
\fIpnt\fP
pointer of the bereg structure to be removed from the list
.TP 10
\fImode\fP
recursive mode (Y or N)

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
A bereg is a data structure representing a one\-bit internal register.

.PP
\fBbeh_addbereg()\fP adds a bereg structure at the top of a list of bereg
structures. The name registred in the bereg structure is produced by
\fBnamealloc()\fP. The function returns the pointer of the new list.
No checks are made by this function.

.PP
\fBbeh_delbereg()\fP deletes a bereg structure (pointed by \fIpnt\fP) from a
list of bereg structures. The function returns the pointer of the new list.
No action is made if the structure pointed by \fIpnt\fP doesn't belong to the
list. If \fImode\fP is set to 'Y' all objects (biabl, binode) pointed by the
bereg will also be deleted. If \fImode\fP is set to 'N' and there is any object
(biabl, binode) pointed by the structure a warning message is printed on the
standard error output.

.PP
\fBbeh_rmvbereg()\fP deletes a bereg structure (named \fIname\fP) from a list
of bereg structures. \fIname\fP is supposed to be produced by \fBnamealloc()\fP.
The function returns the pointer of the new list.
No action is made if no structure named \fIname\fP has been found in the list.
If \fImode\fP is set to 'Y' all objects (biabl, binode) pointed by the bereg
will also be deleted. If \fImode\fP is set to 'N' and there is any object
(biabl, binode) pointed by the structure a warning message is printed on the
standard error output.

.PP
\fBbeh_frebereg()\fP deletes a list of bereg structures (pointed by
\fIlist\fP) and all objects (biabl, binode) pointed by any bereg structure of
the list. No action is made if \fIlist\fP is an empty list (NULL pointer).
No checks are made by this function.

.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
.nf
#include <beh108.h>

struct bereg *list;
char *name;

name = namealloc ("counter_2");
list = beh_addbereg (list,"ram_0", NULL, NULL);
list = beh_rmvbereg (list,name);
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
beh(3), log(1), biabl(3), binode(3), bereg(3), namealloc(3)


.so man1/alc_bug_report.1

