.\"   $Id: funbeaux.3,v 1.1 1999/05/31 17:30:21 alliance Exp $
.\" @(#)beaux.2 108 Feb 15 1995 UPCM ; Pirouz BAZARGAN SABET
.TH FUNBEAUX 3 "October 1, 1997" "ASIM/LIP6" "BEH functions"

.so man1/alc_origin.1
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBbeh_addbeaux , beh_delbeaux , beh_rmvbeaux , beh_frebeaux\fP

.SH SYNOPSYS
.PP
.nf
struct beaux *beh_addbeaux (list, name, abl, bdd)
struct beaux *list;
char *name;
struct chain *abl;
struct node *bdd;

struct beaux *beh_delbeaux (list, pnt, mode)
struct beaux *list;
struct beaux *pnt;
char mode;

struct beaux *beh_rmvbeaux (list, name, mode)
struct beaux *list;
char *name;
char mode;

void beh_frebeaux (list)
struct beaux *list;
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.TP 10
\fIlist\fP
pointer of a list of beaux structures
.TP 10
\fIname\fP
name of the simple internal signal to be added to or removed from the list
.TP 10
\fIabl\fP
the abl representing the expression of the simple internal signal
.TP 10
\fIbdd\fP
the bdd representing the expression of the simple internal signal
.TP 10
\fIpnt\fP
pointer of the beaux structure to be removed from the list
.TP 10
\fImode\fP
recursive mode (Y or N)

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
A beaux is a data structure representing a one\-bit simple internal signal.

.PP
\fBbeh_addbeaux()\fP adds a beaux structure at the top of a list of beaux
structures. The name registred in the beaux structure is produced by
\fBnamealloc()\fP. The function returns the pointer of the new list.
No checks are made by this function.

.PP
\fBbeh_delbeaux()\fP deletes a beaux structure (pointed by \fIpnt\fP) from a
list of beaux structures. The function returns the pointer of the new list.
No action is made if the structure pointed by \fIpnt\fP doesn't belong to the
list. If \fImode\fP is set to 'Y' all objects (abl) pointed by the beaux will
also be removed. If \fImode\fP is set to 'N' and there is any object (abl)
pointed by the beaux a warning message is printed on the standard error output.

.PP
\fBbeh_rmvbeaux()\fP deletes a beaux structure (named \fIname\fP) from a list
of beaux structures. \fIname\fP is supposed to be produced by \fBnamealloc()\fP.
The function returns the pointer of the new list. No action is made if the
structure named by \fIname\fP doesn't belong to the list.
If \fImode\fP is set to 'Y' all objects (abl) pointed by the beaux will also
be removed. If \fImode\fP is set to 'N' and there is any object (abl) pointed
by the beaux a warning message is printed on the standard error output.

.PP
\fBbeh_frebeaux()\fP deletes a list of beaux structures (pointed by
\fIlist\fP) and all objects (abl) pointed by any beaux structure of the list.
No action is made if \fIlist\fP is an empty list (NULL pointer).
No checks are made by this function.

.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
.nf
#include <beh108.h>

struct beaux *list;
char *name;

name = namealloc ("carry_3");
list = beh_addbeaux (list,"carry_2", NULL, NULL);
list = beh_rmvbeaux (list,name);
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
beh(3), log(1), beaux(3), namealloc(3)


.so man1/alc_bug_report.1

