.\"   $Id: funbepor.3,v 1.1 1999/05/31 17:30:21 alliance Exp $
.\" @(#)bepor.2 108 Feb 15 1995 UPMC ; Pirouz BAZARGAN SABET
.TH FUNBEPOR 3 "October 1, 1997" "ASIM/LIP6" "BEH functions"

.so man1/alc_origin.1
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBbeh_addbepor , beh_delbepor , beh_rmvbepor , beh_frebepor\fP

.SH SYNOPSYS
.PP
.nf
struct bepor *beh_addbepor (list, name, dir, type)
struct bepor *list;
char *name;
char dir;
char type;

struct bepor *beh_delbepor (list, pnt)
struct bepor *list;
struct bepor *pnt;

struct bepor *beh_rmvbepor (list, name)
struct bepor *list;
char *name;

void beh_frebepor (list)
struct bepor *list;
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.TP 10
\fIlist\fP
pointer of a list of bepor structures
.TP 10
\fIname\fP
name of the port to be added to or removed from the list
.TP 10
\fIdir\fP
direction of the port :
.RS
.TP 5
I
for a simple input port
.TP 5
O
for a simple output port
.TP 5
B
for a simple input\-output port
.TP 5
Z
for an output port drived by a tri\-state emitter
.TP 5
T
for an input\-output port drived by a tri\-state emitter
.RE
.TP 10
\fItype\fP
type of the port :
.RS
.TP 5
B
for a BIT
.TP 5
W
for a WOR_BIT
.TP 5
M
for a MUX_BIT
.RE
.TP 10
\fIpnt\fP
pointer of the bepor structure to be removed from the list

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
A bepor is a data structure representing a one\-bit port. A bepor list must be
ordered in the reverse order of port declarations.

.PP
\fBbeh_addbepor()\fP adds a bepor structure at the top of a list of bepor
structures. The name registred in the bepor structure is produced by
\fBnamealloc()\fP. The function returns the pointer of the new list.
No checks are made by this function.

.PP
\fBbeh_delbepor()\fP deletes a bepor structure (pointed by \fIpnt\fP) from a
list of bepor structures. The function returns the pointer of the new list.
No action is made if the structure pointed by \fIpnt\fP doesn't belong to the
list.

.PP
\fBbeh_rmvbepor()\fP deletes a bepor structure (named \fIname\fP) from a list
of bepor structures. \fIname\fP is supposed to be produced by \fBnamealloc()\fP.
The function returns the pointer of the new list.
No action is made if no structure named \fIname\fP has been found in the list.

.PP
\fBbeh_frebepor()\fP deletes a list of bepor structures (pointed by
\fIlist\fP). No action is made if \fIlist\fP is an empty list (NULL pointer).
No checks are made by this function.

.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
.nf
#include <beh108.h>

struct bepor *list;
char *name;

name = namealloc ("slave_clock");
list = beh_addbepor (list,"master_clock",'I','B');
list = beh_rmvbepor (list,name);
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
beh(3), bepor(3), namealloc(3)


.so man1/alc_bug_report.1

