.\"   $Id: funpaiol.3,v 1.1 1999/05/31 17:30:21 alliance Exp $
.\" @(#)funpaiol.2 106 Sep 30 1996 UPMC ; VUONG Huu\-Nghia 
.TH FUNPAIOL 3 "October 1, 1997" "ASIM/LIP6" "PAT functions"

.so man1/alc_origin.1
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBpat_addpaiol, pat_crtpaiol, pat_frepaiol\fP

.SH SYNOPSYS
.PP
.nf
struct paiol *pat_addpaiol (lastpaiol, name, format, mode, blank)
struct paiol *lastpaiol;
char *name;
char format;
char mode;
unsigned char blank;
 
struct paiol *pat_crtpaiol (listpaiol)
struct paiol *listpaiol;

void pat_frepaiol (listpaiol)
struct paiol *listpaiol;
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.TP 10
\fIlastpaiol\fP
pointer on the last paiol structure
.TP 10
\fIname\fP
input\-output\'s name
.TP 10
\fIformat\fP
input\-output\'s format
.TP 10
\fImode\fP
input\-output\'s mode
.TP 10
\fIblank\fP
number of blank columns to be printed after the input\-output value
.TP 10
\fIlistpaiol\fP
list of paiol structures to be deleted or put in a table

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
A paiol is a data structure representing a one\-bit input\-output.

.PP
\fBpat_addpaiol()\fP adds a paiol structure at the top of a list of paiol
structures. The name registered in the paiol is produced by \fBnamealloc()\fP.
The function returns the pointer of the new list. No check is made by
this function.

.PP
\fBpat_crtpaiol()\fP creates a table of paiol structures. This table is
organized in a simply chained list. Then, \fBpat_crtpaiol()\fP copies the
content of the old paiol list in the new table. No check is made by this
function.

.PP
\fBpat_frepaiol()\fP deletes a list of paiol structures. No check is made
by this function.

.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
.nf
#include <pat106.h>

struct paiol *list;
struct paiol *final_list;

list = pat_addpaiol (list, "INA", 'X', 'I', 10);
final_list = pat_crtpaiol (list);
pat_frepaiol (list);
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
libpat(3), paiol(3), namealloc(3)


.so man1/alc_bug_report.1

