.\"   $Id: GENLIB_THRU_H.3,v 1.2 2000/09/28 15:25:55 fred Exp $
.\" @(#)GENLIB_THRU_H.3 2.11 91/08/22 ; Labo Cao-vlsi; Author : Frederic Petrot
.if t \{\
.so man1/alc_contents.mac
.XS \n%
.ti 0.2i
GENLIB_THRU_H
.XE \}
.TH GENLIB_THRU_H.3 "October 1, 1997" "ASIM/LIP6" "PROCEDURAL GENERATION LANGUAGE"
.SH NAME
\fBTHRU_H\fP \- draw an horizontal wire from side to side of the
\fIabutment box\fP of the current figure
.SH SYNOPSYS
.nf
.if n \{\
.ft B \}
.if t \{\
.ft CR \}
#include <genlib.h>
void GENLIB_THRU_H(layer, width, y)
char layer;
long width;
long y;
.ft R
.fi
.so man1/alc_origin.1
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 20
\fIlayer\fP
Layout layer of the wire
.TP
\fIwidth\fP
Width of the wire
.TP
\fIy\fP
Absolute y coordinate of the wire
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBTHRU_H\fP adds an horizontal segment in the current layout cell.
The \fIy\fP coordinates gives the wire its vertical position, horizontal ones
beeing extracted from the figure \fIabutment box\fP.
The segment is drawn thru the figure, from one side of the \fIabutment box\fP
to the other side.
.br
This function is mostly used to put \fIthrough routes\fP on a figure, and
therefore, the \fBT\fP prefixed layer names are the most likely to be used
here.
.br
The \fIlayer\fP argument can take the following legal values:
.RS
.TP 
\fBNWELL\fP 
.TP
\fBPWELL\fP 
.TP
\fBNTIE\fP 
.TP
\fBPTIE\fP 
.TP
\fBNDIF\fP 
.TP
\fBPDIF\fP 
.TP
\fBNTRANS\fP 
.TP
\fBPTRANS\fP 
.TP
\fBPOLY\fP 
.TP
\fBALU1\fP 
.TP
\fBALU2\fP 
.TP
\fBALU3\fP 
.TP
\fBTPOLY\fP 
.TP
\fBTALU1\fP 
.TP
\fBTALU2\fP 
.TP
\fBTALU3\fP 
.RE
.SH ERRORS
.if n \{\
.ft B \}
.if t \{\
.ft CR \}
"GENLIB_THRU_H impossible : missing GENLIB_DEF_PHFIG"
.ft R
.RS
No figure has been yet specified by a call to \fBDEF_PHFIG\fP. So it isn't
possible to place a connector inside it.
you must call \fBDEF_PHFIG\fP before any other layout action.
.RE
.if n \{\
.ft B \}
.if t \{\
.ft CR \}
"GENLIB_THRU_H impossible : no or illegal abutment box"
.ft R
.RS
The current figure has either no abutment box defined yet, or has a width
of zero. \fBDEF_AB\fP is to be called.
.RE
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
.if n \{\
.ft B \}
.if t \{\
.ft CR \}
#include <genlib.h>
main()
{
	/\(** Create a figure to work on  \(**/
	GENLIB_DEF_PHFIG("cell");
	.
	.
	.
	GENLIB_DEF_AB(0L, 0L, 0L, 0L);
	/\(** Put a wire through the figure \(**/
	GENLIB_THRU_H(TALU2, 1, 32L);
	/\(** Save that on disk \(**/
	GENLIB_SAVE_PHFIG();
}
.ft R
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR genlib (1),
.BR GENLIB_DEF_PHFIG (3),
.BR GENLIB_SAVE_PHFIG (3),
.BR GENLIB_THRU_V (3),
.BR GENLIB_THRU_CON_H (3),
.BR GENLIB_THRU_CON_V (3).


.so man1/alc_bug_report.1

