.\"   $Id: grog.3,v 1.1 1999/05/31 17:30:20 alliance Exp $
.\" @(#)grog.2 2.11 91/08/22 ; Labo masi cao-vlsi; Author : Frederic Petrot
.ie t \{\
.fp 4 C \}
.el \{\
.fp 4 B \}
.TH GROG 3 "October 1, 1997" "ASIM/LIP6" "MBK PHYSICAL FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
grog \- call the \fIROM\fP generator
.so man1/alc_origin.1
.SH SYNOPSYS
.nf
.if n \{\
.ft B \}
.if t \{\
.ft CR \}
#include "ggr000.h"
char \(**grog(name, nb, nw, codefile, tr, hz, r, msb,
           layout, logicalbox, vhdl, pattern, icon,
           physicalbox, datasheet)
char \(**name, \(**codefile;
long nb, nw, tr, hz, r, msb, layout, logicalbox,
     vhdl, pat, icon, physicalbox, datasheet;
.ft R
.fi
.SH PARAMETER
.TP 20
\fIname\fP
Name of the generated block.
.TP 20
\fInb\fP
Number of bits of the \fIROM\fR.
This number ranges from 1 to 64 inclusive.
.TP 20
\fInw\fP
Number of words of the \fIROM\fR.
The acceptables values are 64, 128, 256, 512 * n, where n belongs to {1,...,8}
.TP 20
\fIcodefile\fP
Name of the file that contains the values to be poked in the \fIROM\fR.
.TP 20
\fItr\fP
Ask for feed through every bit line if not set to zero.
.TP 20
\fIhz\fP
Ask for three state buffer if not set to zero.
.TP 20
\fIr\fP
Ask for output order from right to left if not zero.
.TP 20
\fImsb0\fP
Indicate that \f4a[0]\fR is the most significant bit if not zero.
.TP 20
\fIlayout\fP
If not zero, generate the layout.
.TP 20
\fIlogicalbox\fP
If not zero, generate the interface of the netlist.
.TP 20
\fIvhdl\fP
If not zero, generate the behavior.
.TP 20
\fIpattern\fP
If not zero, generate the pattern for simulation.
.TP 20
\fIicon\fP
If not zero, generate the icon.
.TP 20
\fIphysicalbox\fP
If not zero, generate an outline of the layout.
.TP 20
\fIdatasheet\fP
If not zero, generate the datasheet.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBgrog\fP is a library function that allows to directly call \f4grog\fR(1),
the \fBAlliance\fR \fIROM\fR generator from a programm.
Details on the arguments can be found in the \f4grog\fR(1) manual.
.SH OUTPUT FILES
.TP 20
\fIname\fR.\f4xx\fR
Layout, netlist and icon views.
For these views, the suffixes depend on the
\f4MBK_OUT_PH\fR(1), \f4MBK_OUT_LO\fR(1) and \f4ICON_OUT\fR
environment variables.
The \fIname\fP is either the one specified by the user, or an internally
generated one prefixed by \f4r\fIwords\f4x\fIbits\fR.
.TP
\fIname\fR.\f4vbe\fR
\fIvhdl\fR behavior.
.TP
\fIname\fR.\f4pat\fR
Set of patterns for validation.
.TP
\fIname\fR.\f4dts\fR
Datasheet.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mbk (1),
.BR genlib (1),
.BR grog (1),
.BR rfg (3),
.BR bsg (3),
.BR rsa (3).

.so man1/alc_bug_report.1

