.\"   $Id: rsa.3,v 1.1 1999/05/31 17:30:24 alliance Exp $
.\" @(#)Labo.l 0.0 91/04/02 UPMC; Author: Luis LUCAS
.TH RSA 3 "October 1, 1997" "ASIM/LIP6" "MBK PHYSICAL FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
rsa \- call the Recurrence Solver Adder generator
.so man1/alc_origin.1
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.if n \{\
.ft B \}
.if t \{\
.ft CR \}
#include "gga300.h"
char \(**rsa(n, cin, cout, overn, not,
             csa, sub, addsub,
             over, deci, stretch, stretch2,
             msb0, virtual,
             layout, icon, vhdl, patterns, datasheet,
             physicalbox-logicalbox-perf,
             name)
int n, cin, cout, overn, not,
       csa, sub, addsub,
       over, deci, stretch, stretch2,
       msb0, virtual,
       layout, icon, vhdl, patterns, datasheet,
       physicalbox-logicalbox-perf,
char \(**name;
.ft R
.fi
.SH PARAMETER
.TP
.IB n
The range is from 3 to 128 bits.
.TP
.B cin
The generated adder will contain a carry input connector on the North side in
Metal1 layer.
.TP
.B cout
The generated adder will contain all the intermediates carry, accessible in
Metal2 Layer, with the multi-access possibilities.
.TP
.B overn
The generated adder will contain the previous carry output \fBover\fP in Metal1
layer on the North side.
This signal could be used to calculate an overflow flag = over^cout.
.TP
.B not
The output sum will be complemented but still keep the connector name
.BR s .
.TP
.B csa
The generated adder will be an adder with 3 operands, and one overflow connector
on the North side in Metal1 layer.
.TP
.B sub
The adder generated is, in fact, a subtractor, and performs always a-b. If the
option \fB-cin\fP is present, then the block calculates a+not(b)+cin .
.TP
.B addsub
The block obtained is a adder/subtractor. If the input terminal is set to 5V
then it is a subtractor. If the option \fB-cin\fP is present, then the block
performs a+xor(b,sub)+cin.
.TP
.B over -deci -stretch -stretch2
Bull Options.
.TP
.B msb0
Default is index 0 for the least significant bit. When \fB-msb0\fP is present
the the most significant bit is indexed with 0.
.TP
.B virtual
Default blocks contain fixed terminals. Virtual terminals can be obtained
using this option. This way,
.BR dpr (1) router should optimized the resultant routed data-path.
.TP
.B layout
The generated view asked is a layout view. The different formats are given by
.BR mbk (1)
documentation, using
.BR MBK_OUT_PH (1)
environment variable.
.TP
.B icon
Icon view for schematic capture. The possible output formats are specified
setting the ICON_OUT (1) environement variable.
.TP 
.B vhdl
The generated view asked is a data-flow behavioural view. The description of
the VHDL used is gived by
.BR vhdl (5).
.TP
.B patterns
Some test vectors are proposed to validate the generated block. The format used
is the
.BR pat (5)
one accepted by the VHDL simulator
.BR asimut (1).
.TP
.B datasheet
Principals process dependent informations are proposed to estimate the adder
performances. It is the default view if none is specified.
.TP
.B physicalbox
The generated view asked is a interface view. The different formats are given by
.BR mbk (1)
documentation, using
.BR MBK_OUT_PH (1)
environment variable.
.TP
.B logicalbox
The generated view asked is an interface netlist view.
The different formats are given by
.BR mbk (1)
documentation, using
.BR MBK_OUT_LO (1)
environment variable.
.TP
.B perf
Programmer Option
.TP
.BI name
The generated adder name will be \fIname\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR MBK_CATA_LIB (1),
.BR MBK_WORK_LIB (1),
.BR MBK_OUT_PH (1),
.BR MBK_OUT_LO (1),
.BR MBK_IN_PH (1),
.BR vhdl (5),
.BR pat (5),
.BR rsa (1),
.BR rfg (1),
.BR bsg (1),
.BR grog (1),

.so man1/alc_bug_report.1

