.\"   $Id: searchauth2elem.3,v 1.1 1999/05/31 17:30:25 alliance Exp $
.\" @(#)searchauth2elem.2 2.7 96/07/02 ; Labo masi cao-vlsi; Author : Jacomme Ludovic
.TH SEARCHAUTH2ELEM 3 "October 1, 1997" "ASIM/LIP6" "AUT FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
searchauth2elem \-  searches an element in the hash table.
.so man1/alc_origin.1
.SH SYNOPSYS
.nf
.if n \{\
.ft B \}
.if t \{\
.ft CR \}
#include "aut101.h"
auth2elem \(**searchauth2elem( HashTable, Key1, Key2 )
  auth2table \(**HashTable;
  char      \(**Key1;
  char      \(**Key2;
.ft R
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 20
\fIHashTable\fP
Pointer to the hash table where to search an element.
.TP
\fIKey1\fP
The first hash element key.
.TP
\fIKey2\fP
The second hash element key.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBsearchauth2elem\fP searches the element associated to the two keys \fIKey1\fP
and \fIKey2\fP in the hash table.
.br
.SH RETURN VALUE
if the element can be found \fBsearchauth2elem\fP returns a pointer to this element
and a null pointer otherwise.
.SH ERRORS
.if n \{\
.ft B \}
.if t \{\
.ft CR \}
"auth2ash: hash key 0 error !"
.ft R
.RS
The two keys \fIKey1\fP and \fIKey2\fP must be valid pointers.
.SH EXAMPLE
.ta 3n 6n 9n 12n 15n 18n 21n
.nf
.if n \{\
.ft B \}
.if t \{\
.ft CR \}
#include "aut101.h"
   auth2table \(**HashTable;
   void add_dictionary( Name1, Name2 )
     \(** Name1;
     \(** Name2;
   {
     addauth2elem( HashTable, 
                   namealloc( Name1 ),
                   namealloc( Name2 ), 0 );
   }
   int search_dictionary( Name1, Name2 )
     \(** Name1;
     \(** Name2;
   {
     auth2elem \(**HashElement;
     HashElement = searchauth2elem( HashTable,
                                    namealloc( Name1 ),
                                    namealloc( Name2 ) );
     return( HashElement != (auth2elem \(**0) );
   }
   ...
   HashTable = createauth2table( 1000 );
   add_dictionary( "hello", "world" );
   ...
   if ( search_dictionary( "hello", "world" ) )
   ...
   destroyauth2table( HashTable );
.ft R
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR aut (1)
.BR destroyauth2table(3),
.BR resetauth2table(3),
.BR createauth2table(3),
.BR addhauth2elem(3),
.BR delauth2elem(3).


.so man1/alc_bug_report.1

