.\"   $Id: THRU_V.3,v 1.1 1999/05/31 17:30:16 alliance Exp $
.\" @(#)THRU_V.3 2.11 91/08/22 ; Labo Cao-vlsi; Author : Frederic Petrot
.if t \{\
.so man1/alc_contents.mac
.XS \n%
.ti 0.2i
THRU_V
.XE \}
.TH THRU_V 3 "October 1, 1997" "ASIM/LIP6" "PROCEDURAL GENERATION LANGUAGE"
.SH NAME
THRU_V \- draw a vertical wire from side to side of the
\fIabutment box\fP of the current figure
.SH SYNOPSYS
.nf
.if n \{\
.ft B \}
.if t \{\
.ft CR \}
#include <genlib.h>
void THRU_V(layer, width, x)
char layer;
long width;
long x;
.ft R
.fi
.so man1/alc_origin.1
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 20
\fIlayer\fP
Layout layer of the wire
.TP
\fIwidth\fP
Width of the wire
.TP
\fIx\fP
Absolute x coordinate of the wire
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBTHRU_V\fP adds a vertical segment in the current layout cell.
The \fIx\fP coordinates gives the wire its horizontal position, vertical ones
beeing extracted from the figure \fIabutment box\fP.
The segment is drawn thru the figure, from one side of the \fIabutment box\fP
to the other side.
.br
This function is mostly used to put \fIthrough routes\fP on a figure, and
therefore, the \fBT\fP prefixed layer names are the most likely to be used
here.
.br
The \fIlayer\fP argument can take the following legal values:
.RS
.TP
\fBNWELL\fP 
.TP
\fBPWELL\fP 
.TP
\fBNTIE\fP 
.TP
\fBPTIE\fP 
.TP
\fBNDIF\fP 
.TP
\fBPDIF\fP 
.TP
\fBNTRANS\fP 
.TP
\fBPTRANS\fP 
.TP
\fBPOLY\fP 
.TP
\fBALU1\fP 
.TP
\fBALU2\fP 
.TP
\fBALU3\fP 
.TP
\fBTPOLY\fP 
.TP
\fBTALU1\fP 
.TP
\fBTALU2\fP 
.TP
\fBTALU3\fP 
.RE
.SH ERRORS
.if n \{\
.ft B \}
.if t \{\
.ft CR \}
"THRU_V impossible : missing DEF_PHFIG"
.ft R
.RS
No figure has been yet specified by a call to \fBDEF_PHFIG\fP. So it isn't
possible to place a connector inside it.
you must call \fBDEF_PHFIG\fP before any other layout action.
.RE
.if n \{\
.ft B \}
.if t \{\
.ft CR \}
"THRU_V impossible : no or illegal abutment box"
.ft R
.RS
The current figure has either no abutment box defined yet, or has a width
of zero. \fBDEF_AB\fP is to be called.
.RE
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
.if n \{\
.ft B \}
.if t \{\
.ft CR \}
#include <genlib.h>
main()
{
	/\(** Create a figure to work on  \(**/
	DEF_PHFIG("cell");
	.
	.
	.
	DEF_AB(0L, 0L, 0L, 0L);
	/\(** Put a wire through the figure \(**/
	THRU_V(TALU2, 1, 32L);
	/\(** Save that on disk \(**/
	SAVE_PHFIG();
}
.ft R
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR genlib (1),
.BR DEF_PHFIG (3),
.BR SAVE_PHFIG (3),
.BR THRU_H (3),
.BR THRU_CON_H (3),
.BR THRU_CON_V (3).


.so man1/alc_bug_report.1

