.\"   $Id: THRU_CON_V.3,v 1.1 1999/05/31 17:30:16 alliance Exp $
.\" @(#)THRU_CON_V.3 2.11 91/08/22 ; Labo Cao-vlsi; Author : Frederic Petrot
.if t \{\
.so man1/alc_contents.mac
.XS \n%
.ti 0.2i
THRU_CON_V
.XE \}
.TH THRU_CON_V 3 "October 1, 1997" "ASIM/LIP6" "PROCEDURAL GENERATION LANGUAGE"
.SH NAME
THRU_CON_V \- draw a vertical wire with connectors from side to side
of the \fIabutment box\fP of the current figure
.SH SYNOPSYS
.nf
.if n \{\
.ft B \}
.if t \{\
.ft CR \}
#include <genlib.h>
void THRU_CON_V(layer, width, name, x)
char layer;
long width;
char \(**name;
long x;
.ft R
.fi
.so man1/alc_origin.1
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 20
\fIlayer\fP
Layout layer of the wire and connectors
.TP
\fIwidth\fP
Width of the wire and connectors
.TP
\fIname\fP
Name of the connectors
.TP
\fIx\fP
Absolute x coordinate of the wire and connectors
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBTHRU_CON_V\fP adds a vertical segment and two connectors in the current
layout cell.
The \fIx\fP coordinates gives the wire and connectors horizontal position,
vertical ones beeing extracted from the figure \fIabutment box\fP.
Two connectors are created on the \fBNORTH\fP and \fPSOUTH\fP sides of the
\fIabutment box\fP, at the \fIx\fP coordinates, and given the name \fIname\fP.
The segment is drawn thru the figure, from the \fBNORTH\fP connector to the
\fBSOUTH\fP one.
.br
This function is mostly used to put \fIthrough routes\fP on a figure, and
therefore, the \fBT\fP prefixed layer names are the most likely to be used
here.
.br
The \fIlayer\fP argument can take the following legal values:
.RS
.TP
\fBNWELL\fP 
.TP
\fBPWELL\fP 
.TP
\fBNTIE\fP 
.TP
\fBPTIE\fP 
.TP
\fBNDIF\fP 
.TP
\fBPDIF\fP 
.TP
\fBNTRANS\fP 
.TP
\fBPTRANS\fP 
.TP
\fBPOLY\fP 
.TP
\fBALU1\fP 
.TP
\fBALU2\fP 
.TP
\fBALU3\fP 
.TP
\fBTPOLY\fP 
.TP
\fBTALU1\fP 
.TP
\fBTALU2\fP 
.TP
\fBTALU3\fP 
.RE
.SH ERRORS
.if n \{\
.ft B \}
.if t \{\
.ft CR \}
"THRU_CON_V impossible : missing DEF_PHFIG"
.ft R
.RS
No figure has been yet specified by a call to \fBDEF_PHFIG\fP. So it isn't
possible to place a connector inside it.
you must call \fBDEF_PHFIG\fP before any other layout action.
.RE
.if n \{\
.ft B \}
.if t \{\
.ft CR \}
"THRU_CON_V impossible : no or illegal abutment box"
.ft R
.RS
The current figure has either no abutment box defined yet, or has an heigth
of zero. \fBDEF_AB\fP is to be called.
.RE
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
.if n \{\
.ft B \}
.if t \{\
.ft CR \}
#include <genlib.h>
main()
{
	/\(** Create a figure to work on  \(**/
	DEF_PHFIG("cell");
	.
	.
	.
	DEF_AB(0L, 0L, 0L, 0L);
	/\(** Put a wire through the figure \(**/
	THRU_CON_V(TALU2, 1, "grumf", 12L);
	/\(** Save that on disk \(**/
	SAVE_PHFIG();
}
.ft R
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR genlib (1),
.BR DEF_PHFIG (3),
.BR SAVE_PHFIG (3),
.BR THRU_H (3),
.BR THRU_V (3),
.BR THRU_CON_V (3).


.so man1/alc_bug_report.1

